8 Representing Data in a Computer
The two ASCII control characters that will be used the most frequently in this
book are 0D16 and 0A16, for carriage return (CR) and line feed (LF). The 0D16 code is
generated by an ASCII keyboard when the Return or Enter key is pressed. When it is
sent to an ASCII display, it causes the cursor to move to the beginning of the current
line without going down to a new line. When carriage return is sent to an ASCII printer
(at least one of older design), it causes the print head to move to the beginning of the
line. The line feed code 0A16 causes an ASCII display to move the cursor straight down,
or a printer to roll the paper up one line, in both cases without going to the beginning
of the new line. To display a message and move to the beginning of a new line, it is
necessary to send the message characters plus CR and LF characters to the screen or
printer. This may be annoying sometimes as you program in assembly language, but
you will also have the option to not use CR and/or LF when you want to leave the cursor on a line after prompting for input, or to piece together a line using several output
instructions.
Lesser-used control characters include form feed (0C16), which causes many
printers to eject a page; horizontal tab (0916), which is generated by the tab key on the
keyboard; backspace (0816) generated by the Backspace key; and delete (7F16) generated
by the Delete key. Notice that the Backspace and Delete keys do not generate the same
codes. The bell character (0716) causes an audible signal when output to the display.
Good programming practice is to sound the bell only when really necessary.
Many large computers represent characters using Extended Binary Coded Decimal Information Code (abbreviated EBCDIC and pronounced ib-SEE-dick or eb-SEEdick). The EBCDIC system will only be used in this book as an example of another coding
scheme when translation from one coding system to another is discussed.
Exercises 1.2
1. Each of the following hexadecimal numbers can be interpreted as
representing a decimal number or a pair of ASCII codes. Give both
interpretations.
(a) 2A45 (b) 7352 (c) 2036 (d) 106E
2. Find the ASCII codes for the characters in each of the following strings.
Don’t forget spaces and punctuation. Carriage return and line feed are
shown by CR and LF, respectively (written together as CRLF so that it will
be clear that there is no space character between them).
(a) January 1 is New Year’s Day.CRLF
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
