36 Parts of a Computer System
2. In an 8086 program, suppose that the data segment register DS contains the segment number 23D1 and that an instruction fetches a word
at offset 7B86 in the data segment. What is the five-hex-digit address of
the word that is fetched?
3. In an 8086 program, suppose that the code segment register CS contains the segment number 014C and that the instruction pointer IP contains 15FE. What is the five-hex-digit address of the next instruction to
be fetched?
2.3 PC Hardware: Input/Output Devices
A CPU and memory make a computer, but without input devices to get data or output
devices to display or write data, the computer is not usable for many purposes. Typical
input/output (I/O) devices include a keyboard or a mouse for input, a monitor to display output, and a disk drive for data and program storage.
An assembly language programmer has multiple ways to look at I/O devices. At
the lowest level, each device uses a collection of addresses or ports in the I/O address
space. The 80x86 architecture has 64K port addresses, and a typical I/O device uses
three to eight ports. These addresses are distinct from ordinary memory addresses. The
programmer uses instructions that output data or commands to these ports or that input
data or status information from them. Such programming is very tedious and the resulting programs are difficult to reuse with different computer systems.
Instead of using separate port addresses, a computer system can be designed
to use addresses in the regular memory address space for I/O device access. Such a
design is said to use memory-mapped input/output. Although memory-mapped I/O is
possible with the 80x86, it is not used with most PCs.
Because of the difficulty of low-level programming of I/O devices, a common
approach is to use procedures that do the busywork of communicating with the devices,
while allowing the programmer a higher-level, more logical view of the devices. Many
such routines are still fairly low-level; examples are procedures to display a single character on the CRT or get a single character from the keyboard. A higher-level procedure
might print a string of characters on a printer.
An assembly language programmer may write input/output procedures, using
knowledge of input/output ports and devices. Some computers have input/output proceTEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
