2.4 PC Software 37
dures built into ROM. Many operating systems (see Section 2.4) also provide input/output procedures.
Exercises 2.3
The previous discussion states that there are 64K port addresses.
1. How many addresses is this (in decimal)?
2. Assuming that the first address is 0, what is the last address?
3. Express the range of port addresses in hex.
2.4 PC Software
Without software, computer hardware is virtually useless. Software refers to the programs
or procedures executed by the hardware. This section discusses different types of software.
PC Software: The Operating System
A general-purpose computer system needs an operating system to enable it to run other
programs. The original IBM PC usually ran the operating system known as PC-DOS;
compatible systems used the very similar operating systems called MS-DOS. DOS
stands for disk operating system. All of these operating systems were developed by
Microsoft Corporation; PC-DOS was customized by IBM to work on the IBM PC, and the
versions of MS-DOS that ran on other computer systems were sometimes customized by
their hardware manufacturers. Later versions of PC-DOS were produced solely by IBM. 
The DOS operating systems provide the user a command line interface. DOS
displays a prompt (such as C:\>) and waits for the user to type a command. When the
user presses the Enter (or Return) key, DOS interprets the command. The command may
be to perform a function that DOS knows how to do (such as displaying the directory of
file names on a disk), or it may be the name of a program to be loaded and executed.
Many users prefer a graphical user interface that displays icons representing
tasks or files, so that the user can make a selection by clicking on an icon with a mouse.
Microsoft Windows provided a graphical user interface for PCs. The versions through
Windows 3.1 enhanced the operating environment, but still required DOS to run. Windows 95 included a major revision of the operating system, which was no longer sold
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
