38 Parts of a Computer System
separately from the graphical user interface. In Windows 95 the graphical user interface
became the primary user interface, although a command line interface was still available.
PC Software: Text Editors
A text editor is a program that allows the user to create or modify text files that are
stored on disk. A text file is a collection of ASCII codes. The text files of most interest in
this book will be assembly language source code files, files that contain assembly language statements. An editor is sometimes useful to prepare a data file as well.
Later versions of MS-DOS and Windows 95 provide a text editor called Edit.
Edit is invoked from the command line prompt. This full-screen editor uses all or part of
the monitor display as a window into the file. The user can move the window up or down
(or left or right) to display different portions of the file. To make changes to the file, cursor
control keys or the mouse are used to move the cursor to the place to be modified, and
the changes are entered.
Microsoft Windows includes a text editor called Notepad. It is also a full-screen
editor. Either Edit or Notepad work well for writing assembly language source programs.
Word processors are text editors that provide extra services for formatting and
printing documents. For example, when one uses a text editor, usually the Enter key
must be pressed at the end of each line. However, a word processor usually wraps words
automatically to the next line as they are typed, so that Enter or some other key is used
only at the end of a paragraph. The word processor takes care of putting the words on
each line within specified margins. A word processor can sometimes be used as an editor to prepare an assembly language source code file, but some word processors store
formatting information with the file along with the ASCII codes for the text. Such extra
information may make the file unsuitable as an assembly language source code file, so it
is safest to avoid a word processor when creating an assembly language source program.
PC Software: Language Translators and the Linker
Language translators are programs that translate a programmer’s source code into a form
that can be executed by the computer. These are usually not provided with an operating
system. Language translators can be classified as interpreters, compilers, or assemblers.
Interpreters directly decipher a source program. To execute a program, an
interpreter looks at a line of source code and follows the instructions of that line. Basic or
Lisp language programs are often executed by an interpreter. Although the interpreter
itself may be a very efficient program, interpreted programs sometimes execute relaTEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
