Chapter Summary 39
tively slowly. An interpreter is generally convenient since it allows a program to be
quickly changed and run. The interpreter itself is often a very large program.
Compilers start with source code and produce object code that consists mostly of
instructions to be executed by the intended CPU. High-level languages such as Pascal, Fortran, Cobol, C, and C++ are commonly compiled. The object code produced by a compiler
must often be linked or combined with other object code to make a program that can be
loaded and executed. This requires a utility called a linker, usually provided with a compiler.
A debugger allows a programmer to control execution of a program, pausing
after each instruction or at a preset breakpoint. When the program is paused, the programmer can examine the contents of variables in a high-level language or registers or
memory in assembly language. A debugger is useful both to find errors and to “see
inside” a computer to find out how it executes programs.
Integrated development environments use a single interface to access an
editor, a compiler, and a linker. They also initiate execution of the program being developed and frequently provide other utilities, such as a debugger. An integrated development environment is convenient, but may not always be available for a particular
programming language.
An assembler is used much like a compiler, but translates assembly language
rather than a high-level language into machine code. The resulting files must normally
be linked to prepare them for execution. Because assembly language is closer to
machine code than a high-level language, the job of an assembler is somewhat simpler
than the job of a compiler. Assemblers historically existed before compilers.
Using again the assembly language instruction cited in Section 2.2,
add eax, 158
is translated by the assembler into the five bytes 05 00 00 00 9E. The first byte 05 is the
op code (operation code), which says to add the number contained in the next four
bytes to the doubleword already in the EAX register. The doubleword 00 00 00 9E is the
2’s complement representation of 15810.
Chapter Summary
This chapter has discussed the hardware and software components that
make up a PC microcomputer system.
The major hardware components are the CPU and memory. The
CPU executes instructions and uses its internal registers for instruction
operands and results and to determine addresses of data and instructions
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
