42 Elements of Assembly Language
3.1 Assembly Language Statements
An assembly language source code file consists of a collection of statements. Most
statements fit easily on an 80-character line, a good limit to observe so that source code
can easily be printed or displayed on a monitor. However, MASM 6.1 accepts statements
up to 512 characters long; these can be extended over more than one physical line using
backslash (\) characters at the end of each line except the last.
Because assembly language programs are far from self-documenting, it is
important to use an adequate number of comments. Comments can be used with any
statement. A semicolon (;) begins the comment, and the comment then extends until the
end of the line. An entire line is a comment if the semicolon is in column 1 or if a comment can follow working parts of a statement. In those rare cases where you use a backslash character to break a statement into multiple lines, a comment can follow the
backslash.
There are three types of functional assembly language statements: instructions,
directives, and macros. An instruction is translated by the assembler into one or more
bytes of object code (machine code), which will be executed at run time. Each instruction corresponds to one of the operations that can be executed by the 80x86 CPU. The
instruction
add  eax, 158
was used as an example in Chapter 2.
A directive tells the assembler to take some action. Such an action does not
result in machine instructions and often has no effect on the object code. For example,
the assembler can produce a listing file showing the original source code, the object
code, and other information. The directive
.NOLIST
anywhere in the source file tells the assembler to stop displaying source statements in
the listing file. The object code produced is the same with or without the .NOLIST
directive. (There is a .LIST directive to resume listing source statements.) These directives and many others start with a period, but others do not.
A macro is “shorthand” for a sequence of other statements, be they instructions, directives, or even other macros. The assembler expands a macro to the statements it represents and then assembles these new statements. Several macros will
appear in the example program later in this chapter.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
