44 Elements of Assembly Language
The instruction can then be the destination of a jmp (jump) instruction, the assembly
language version of a goto:
jmp   addLoop     ; repeat addition
Notice that the colon does not appear at the end of the name addLoop in the jmp
instruction. High-level language loop structures like while or for are not available in
machine language although they can be implemented using jmp or other instructions.
It is sometimes useful to have a line of source code consisting of just a name,
for example
EndIfBlank:
Such a label might be used as the last line of code implementing an if-then-else-endif
structure. This name effectively becomes a label for whatever instruction follows it,
but it is convenient to implement a structure without worrying about what comes
afterwards.
It is considered good coding practice to make labels descriptive. The label
addLoop might help to clarify the assembly language code, identifying the first instruction of a program loop that includes an addition. Other labels, like EndIfBlank above, may
parallel key words in a pseudocode design.
Names and other identifiers used in assembly language are formed from letters,
digits, and special characters. The allowable special characters are underscore (_), question mark (?), dollar sign ($), and at sign (@). In this book, the special characters will be
rarely used. A name may not begin with a digit. An identifier may have up to 247 characters, so that it is easy to form meaningful names. The Microsoft Macro Assembler will
not allow instruction mnemonics, directive mnemonics, register designations, and other
words that have a special meaning to the assembler to be used as names. Appendix C
contains a list of such reserved identifiers.
The assembler will accept code that is almost impossible for a human to read.
However, since your programs must also be read by other people, you should make them
as readable as possible. Two things that help are good program formatting and use of
lowercase letters.
Recall that assembly language statements can contain name, mnemonic,
operand, and comment fields. A well-formatted program has these fields aligned as you
read down the program. Always put names in column 1. Mnemonics might all start in
column 12, operands might all start in column 18, and comments might all start in column 30—the particular columns are not as important as being consistent. Blank lines are
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
