46 Elements of Assembly Language
1 The files IO.H, IO.OBJ, and IO.ASM are written by the author of this book and are available to the user.
input ASCII characters representing the second number;
convert the characters to a 2’s complement doubleword;
add the first number to the second number;
convert the sum to a string of ASCII characters;
display a label and the characters representing the sum;
Figure 3.1 lists the complete program which implements this design. The parts
are explained below.
The example program begins with comments identifying the purpose of the
program, the author, and the date the program was written. This is minimal documentation for any program; most organizations require much more. In the interest of saving
space, the program documentation in this book will be relatively brief, although most
lines of code will include comments.
The statements
.386
.MODEL FLAT
are both directives. Without the directive .386, MASM accepts only 8086/8088 instructions;
with it, the assembler accepts the additional instructions that are executed by 80186, 80286,
and 80386 processors. The .486 and .586 directives enable use of even more instructions,
but we will not be programming with these instructions. There is also a .386P directive that
allows the assembler to recognize privileged 80386 instructions; we will not use these
instructions. The directive .MODEL FLAT tells the assembler to generate 32-bit code using a
flat memory model. With MASM 6.1, this directive must follow the .386 directive.
The next statement
ExitProcess PROTO NEAR32 stdcall, dwExitCode:DWORD
is another directive. The PROTO directive is used to prototype a function. In this
instance, the name of the function is ExitProcess, a system function used to terminate a
program. It has one parameter, a doubleword symbolically called dwExitCode.
The next statement
INCLUDE io.h
is yet another directive. (In spite of the way it looks at this point, a program doesn’t consist of only directives!) It instructs the assembler to copy the file IO.H into your program
as the program is assembled.1 The source file is not modified: It still contains just the
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
