50 Elements of Assembly Language
with the name sum. Even though the last BYTE directive has no label, it reserves three
initialized bytes of memory immediately following the 11 for sum.
The next segment of the program contains executable statements. It begins
with the directive
.CODE
The line of code with only the label
_start:
marks the entry point of the program, the address of the first statement to be executed.
The name used is the programmer’s choice, but we will consistently use _start for
this purpose.
Finally we come to the statements that really do something! Since this program
performs mostly input and output, the bulk of its statements are macros to perform these
functions. The macro
output  prompt1
displays characters stored at the address referenced by prompt1, using a null (00) byte
to terminate the display. In this program, the user will be prompted to enter the first
number. Since there is no carriage return or line feed character at the end of the prompt,
the cursor will remain on the line following the colon and the two blanks. The statement
input   string, 40       ; read ASCII characters
is a macro that functionally causes the computer to pause and wait for characters to
be entered at the keyboard until the user presses the Enter key to terminate the input.
The first operand (string) identifies where the ASCII codes for these characters will
be stored. The second operand (40) identifies the maximum number of characters
that can be entered. Notice that 40 uninitialized bytes were reserved at address
string. More details about the input macro are in Section 3.6, but for now just note
that you want to be fairly generous with the number of bytes you reserve in an input
area.
The input macro inputs ASCII codes, but the CPU does arithmetic with numbers in 2’s complement form. The atod (for “ASCII to double”) macro scans memory at
the address specified by its single operand and converts the ASCII codes there to the
corresponding 2’s complement doubleword; the result is stored in EAX. In this program
atod    string          ; convert to integer
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
