52 Elements of Assembly Language
uses the contents of EAX as the source, and fills in the 11 bytes at sum with ASCII codes
corresponding to this value. For a typical small number, leading space characters are
used fill a total of 11 bytes. The macro
output  label1          ; output label and sum
will display bytes of memory, starting at label1 and continuing until a null byte (00) is
encountered. Since the undefined bytes at sum have been replaced by ASCII codes, the
first null byte in memory will be the one following the carriage return and line feed codes
in the unlabeled BYTE directive—a total of 26 characters will be displayed.
The statement
INVOKE  ExitProcess, 0  ; exit with return code 0
is a directive that generates code to call the procedure ExitProcess with the value 0
for the parameter symbolically called dwExitCode in the prototype. Functionally this
terminates the program, with exit code value 0 telling the operating system that the program terminated normally. (Nonzero values can be used to indicate error conditions.)
Normally the names used inside a file are visible only inside the file. The directive
PUBLIC _start                   ; make entry point public
makes the entry point address visible outside this file, so that the linker can identify the
first instruction to be executed as it constructs an executable program file. We will later
use this directive to make names of separately assembled procedures visible.
The final statement in an assembly language source file is the directive END.
This marks the physical end of the program. There should be no statement following END.
Exercises 3.2
1. Identify three directives that appear in the example program.
2. Identify three macros that appear in the example program.
3. Identify three instructions that appear in the example program.
4. In the example program, why is prompt2 associated with address
0000001E? What are the contents of the 23 bytes reserved by this
directive?
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
