70 Elements of Assembly Language
One of the points of the previous examples is that different operands can result in the same
stored value. For instance, note that the WORD directives with operands 65535 and  1 both
generate words containing FFFF. This value can be thought of as either the unsigned number 65,535 or the signed number  1, depending on the context in which it is used.
As previously stated, the bytes of a word or doubleword are actually stored
backwards so that, for example, the initial value of word6 previous is actually 18FC. This
book will concentrate on the logical values rather than the way that they are stored.
The BYTE directive allows character operands with a single character or string
operands with many characters. Either apostrophes (') or quotation marks (") can be used
to designate characters or delimit strings. They must be in pairs; you can not put an apostrophe on the left and a quotation mark on the right. A string delimited with apostrophes
can contain quotation marks, and one delimited with quotation marks can contain apostrophes, making it possible to have strings containing these special characters. Unless
there is reason to do otherwise, this book will follow the convention of putting single characters between apostrophes and strings of characters between quotation marks.
Each of the following BYTE directives is allowable.
char1      BYTE   'm'      ; value is 6D
char2      BYTE   6dh      ; value is 6D
string1    BYTE   "Joe"    ; value is 4A 6F 65
string2    BYTE   "Joe's"  ; value is 4A 6F 65 27 73
If you are trying to store the letter m rather than the number 6D16, then there is no reason
to look up the ASCII code and enter it as in char2—the assembler has a built-in ASCII
chart! Notice that the delimiters, the apostrophes or quotation marks on the ends of the
character or string, are not themselves stored.
The assembler allows restricted usage of character operands in DWORD or WORD
directives. However, there is little reason to do this.
You have already seen examples of BYTE directives with multiple operands separated by commas. DWORD and WORD directives also allows multiple operands. The directive
words      WORD    10, 20, 30, 40
reserves four words of storage with initial values 000A, 0014, 001E, and 0028. The DUP
operator can be used to generate multiple bytes or words with known values as well as
uninitialized values. Its use is limited to BYTE, DWORD, WORD, and other directives that
reserve storage. The directive
DblArray   DWORD   100 DUP(999)
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
