3.7 Input/Output Using Macros Defined in IO.H 79
ASCII data (such as a doubleword integer in 2’s complement form), there will be
strange results.
The output macro does not change any register contents, including the flag
register.
The input macro is used to input a string of characters from the keyboard. It
has two parameters, destination and length. The destination operand references a string
of bytes in the data segment and the length operand references the number of bytes
reserved in that string. The destination string should be at least two bytes longer than
the actual number of characters to be entered; this allows for the operating system to
add carriage return and linefeed characters when you press Enter. The input macro
replaces the carriage return character by a null byte, so that the result is a null-terminated string stored at destination.
The input macro changes only memory at the specified destination. It does not
change any register contents, including the flag register.
The name dtoa (double to ASCII) describes the function of this macro. It takes
a doubleword length source containing a 2’s complement integer, and produces a
string of exactly 11 ASCII characters representing the same integer in the decimal number system. The source operand is normally a register or memory operand. The destination will always be a 11-byte area of storage in the data segment reserved with a BYTE
directive. The string of characters produced will have leading blanks if the number is
shorter than 11 characters. If the number is negative, a minus sign will immediately precede the digits. Since the decimal range for a word-length 2’s complement number is
 2147483648 to 2147483647, there is no danger of generating too many characters to fit
in a 11-byte-long field. A positive number will always have at least one leading blank.
The dtoa macro alters only the 11-byte area of memory that is the destination
for the ASCII codes. No registers are changed, including the flag register.
The atod (ASCII to double) macro is in many ways the inverse of the dtoa
macro. It has only a single operand, the address of a string of ASCII character codes in storage, and it scans this area of memory for characters that represent a decimal number. If it
finds characters for a decimal number in the range  2,147,483,648 to 2,147,483,647, then
the doubleword-length 2’s complement form of the number is placed in the EAX register.
The source string may contain any number of leading blanks. These are skipped by
atod. There may then be the ASCII code for   (minus) or the ASCII code for + (plus). A number is assumed positive if there is no leading sign. Codes for digits 0 through 9 must immediately follow the optional sign. Once a digit code is encountered, atod continues scanning
until any character other than a digit is encountered. Such a character terminates the scan.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
