80 Elements of Assembly Language
Problems may arise when the atod macro is used. The macro may find no digit
code; this would be the case if a space character were between a minus sign and the first
digit of a number, or if the source string began with the code for a letter. The decimal number could be too large to store in doubleword-length 2’s complement form. If any of these
things occurs, a value of 00000000 is placed in EAX and the overflow flag OF is set to 1.
If atod is able to successfully convert a string of ASCII characters, then the
overflow flag OF is set to 0. In all cases, the SF, ZF, and PF flags are set according to the
value returned in EAX as follows:
• SF is 1 if the number is negative, and 0 otherwise
• ZF is 1 if the number is 0, and 0 if the number is nonzero
• PF reflects the parity of the number returned in EAX
In addition, CF is 0 and DF is unchanged. No registers other than EAX and the flag register are changed.
The atod macro will typically be used immediately after the input macro. The
input macro produces a string of ASCII codes, including a trailing null character. When
atod is applied to this string, the null character serves as a terminating character for the
scan. If atod is applied to a string that comes from some source other than input, the
programmer must ensure that it has some trailing nondigit character to prevent atod
from scanning too far.
The atoi (ASCII to integer) and itoa (integer to ASCII) macros are the wordlength versions of atod and dtoa. The atoi macro scans a string of characters and produces the corresponding word-length 2’s complement value in AX. The itoa macro
takes the 2’s complement value stored in a word-length source and produces a string of
exactly six characters representing this value in decimal. These macros are useful if you
are dealing with values in the range  32,768 to 32,767.
Exercises 3.7
1. Why wasn’t the dtoa macro designed to produce a smaller number of
ASCII codes? What is important about the number 11?
2. Why wasn’t the itoa macro designed to produce a smaller number of
ASCII codes? What is important about the number six?
3. Given the data segment definition
response1 BYTE     10 DUP(?)
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
