86 Basic Instructions
4.1 Copying Data
Most computer programs copy data from one location to another. With 80x86 machine
language, this copying job is done by mov (move) instructions. Each mov instruction
has the form
mov  destination, source
and copies a byte, word, or doubleword value from the source operand location to the
destination operand location. The value stored at the source location is not changed. The
destination location must be the same size as the source. A mov instruction is similar to
a simple assignment statement in a high-level language. For example, the Pascal or Ada
assignment statement
Count := Number
might correspond directly to the assembly language instruction
mov  Count, ecx        ; Count := Number
assuming that the ECX register contains the value of Number and that Count references a
doubleword in memory. The analogy between high-level language assignment statements
and mov instructions cannot be carried too far. For example, the assignment statement
Count := 3*Number + 1
cannot be coded with a single mov instruction. Multiple instructions are required to evaluate
the right-hand expression before the resulting value is copied to the destination location.
One limitation of the 80x86 architecture is that not all “logical” combinations of
source and destination operands are allowed. In particular, you cannot have both source
and destination in memory. The instruction
mov  Count, Number    ; illegal for two memory operands
is not allowed if both Count and Number reference memory locations.
All 80x86 mov instructions are coded with the same mnemonic. The assembler
selects the correct opcode and other bytes of the machine code by looking at the
operands as well as the mnemonic.
Figure 4.1 lists mov instructions that have an immediate source operand and a
register destination operand. The number of clock cycles it takes to execute each instruction is given for 80386, 80486, and Pentium processors. Although little production programming is actually done in assembly language, some assembly language code is
written in the interest of obtaining very efficient procedures. Time efficiency is often
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
