4.1 Copying Data 91
noted that instructions that access memory may require more than the number of clock
cycles listed. One reason this can occur is memory that does not respond rapidly enough; in
this case wait states, wasted clock cycles, are inserted until the memory responds. Even
with fast memory, extra cycles can be required to access a word or doubleword that is not
aligned in memory—that is, stored on an address that is a multiple of two or four, respectively. A programmer should plan to keep frequently-used data in registers when possible.
This book does not discuss mov instructions that copy data to and from special
registers used primarily in systems programming.
When you first look at all the mov instructions summarized in Figs. 4.1–4.3, you
may think that you can use them to copy any source value to any destination location.
However, many seemingly logical combinations are not available. These include
• a move with both source and destination in memory
• immediate source to segment register destination
• any move to or from the flag register
• any move to the instruction pointer register
• a move from one segment register to another segment register
• any move where the operands are not the same size
• a move of several objects
You may need to do some of these operations. We describe below how to accomplish
some of them.
Although there is no mov instruction to copy from a memory source to a memory
destination, two moves using an intermediate register can accomplish the same thing.
For doubleword length data referenced by Count and Number, the illegal instruction
mov  Count, Number      ; illegal for two memory operands
can be replaced by
mov  eax, Number         ; Count := Number
mov  Count, eax
each using the accumulator EAX and one direct memory operand. Some register other
than EAX could be used, but each of these instructions using the accumulator requires
five bytes, while each of the corresponding instructions using some other register takes
six bytes—EAX is chosen in the interest of space efficiency.
To load an immediate value into a segment register, one can use an immediate
to register 16 move, followed by a register 16 to segment register move. This sequence
is needed to initialize the data segment register DS when coding with segmented
memory models.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
