92 Basic Instructions
Although the flag register and the instruction pointer cannot be set by mov
instructions, other instructions do change their values. The instruction pointer register is
routinely updated as new instructions are fetched and it is automatically changed by
jump, call, and return instructions. Individual flags are set by a variety of instructions,
and it is possible and occasionally desirable to set all bits in the flag register to specified
values; some techniques will be covered later.
To change the size of data from a word to a byte, it is legal, for example, to
transfer a word to a register 16, and then move out just the high-order or low-order byte
to a destination. Going the other way, one can piece together two bytes in the high and
low bytes of a 16-bit register and then copy the resulting word to some destination.
These techniques are occasionally useful, and others will be discussed in Chapter 8. It is
sometimes necessary to extend a byte-length number to word or doubleword length, or a
word length number to four bytes; instructions for doing this are covered in Section 4.4.
Suppose that you have source and destination locations declared as
source    DWORD 4 DUP(?)
dest      DWORD 4 DUP(?)
and that you want to copy all four doublewords from the source to the destination. One
way to do this is with four instructions
mov  eax, source         ; copy first doubleword
mov  dest, eax
mov  eax, source+4       ; copy second doubleword
mov  dest+4, eax
mov  eax, source+8       ; copy third doubleword
mov  dest+8, eax
mov  eax, source+12      ; copy fourth doubleword
mov  dest+12, eax 
An address like source+4 refers to the location four bytes (one doubleword) after the
address of source. Since the four doublewords reserved at source are contiguous in
memory, source+4 refers to the second doubleword. This code clearly would not be
space efficient if you needed to copy 40 or 400 doublewords. In Chapter 5 you will learn
how to set up a loop to copy multiple objects and in Chapter 7 you will learn how to use
string operations to copy large blocks of data.
The 80x86 has a very useful xchg instruction that exchanges data in one location with data in another location. It accomplishes in a single instruction the operation
that often requires three high-level language instructions. Suppose Value1 and Value2
are being exchanged. In a design or a high-level language, this might be done using
Temp := Value1;     { swap Value1 and Value2 }
Value1 := Value2;
Value2 := Temp;
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
