98 Basic Instructions
Addition and subtraction instructions set the sign flag SF to be the same as the
high-order bit of the result. Thus, when these instructions are used to add or subtract 2’s
complement integers, SF=1 indicates a negative result. The zero flag ZF is 1 if the result
is zero, and 0 if the result is nonzero. The carry flag CF records a carry out of the high
order bit with addition or a borrow with subtraction. The overflow flag OF records overflow, as discussed in Chapter 2.
One reason that 2’s complement form is used to represent signed numbers is
that it does not require special hardware for addition or subtraction; the same circuits
can be used to add unsigned numbers and 2’s complement numbers. The flag values
have different interpretations, though, depending on the operand type. For instance,
if you add two large unsigned numbers and the high order bit of the result is 1, then
SF will be set to 1, but this does not indicate a negative result, only a relatively large
sum. For an add with unsigned operands, CF=1 would indicate that the result was
too large to store in the destination, but with signed operands, OF=1 would indicate a
size error.
Figure 4.5 gives information for both addition and subtraction instructions. For
each add there is a corresponding sub instruction with exactly the same operand types,
number of clock cycles, and number of bytes of object code, so that it is redundant to
make separate tables for add and sub instructions.
Figure 4.5 makes it easy to see that addition or subtraction operands are the
fastest when both operands are in registers and the slowest when the destination
operand is in memory. It is interesting to note that it is faster to add an operand in memory to the contents of a register than to add the value in a register to a memory operand;
this is true since memory must be accessed twice in the latter case, once to get the first
addend and once to store the sum. With the 80x86, only one operand can be in memory.
Many computer architectures do not have instructions for arithmetic when the destination is a memory operand. Some other processors allow two memory operands for arithmetic operations.
With add and sub, the accumulator again has special instructions, this time
when EAX, AX, or AL is the destination and the source is immediate. These instructions
are not any faster than the other immediate-to-register instructions but do take one less
byte of object code.
The total number of object code bytes for instructions with “+” entries in Fig.
4.5 can be calculated once you know the memory operand type. In particular, for direct
mode, you add four bytes for the 32-bit address. For register indirect mode, no additional
byte is required.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
