108 Basic Instructions
3. Write a complete 80x86 assembly language program to prompt for the
length and width of a rectangle and to display its perimeter (2*length
+ 2*width).
4.3 Multiplication Instructions
The 80x86 architecture has two multiplication instruction mnemonics. Any imul
instruction treats its operands as signed numbers; the sign of the product is determined
by the usual rules for multiplying signed numbers. A mul instruction treats its operands
as unsigned binary numbers; the product is also unsigned. If only non-negative numbers are to be multiplied, mul should usually be chosen instead of imul since it is a little faster.
There are fewer variants of mul than of imul, so we consider it first. The mul
instruction has a single operand; its format is
mul   source
The source operand may be byte, word, or doubleword-length, and it may be in a register or
in memory. The location of the other number to be multiplied is always the accumulator—AL
for a byte source, AX for a word source, and EAX for a doubleword source. If source has byte
length, then it is multiplied by the byte in AL; the product is 16 bits long, with a destination
of the AX register. If source has word length, then it is multiplied by the word in AX; the
product is 32 bits long, with its low order 16 bits going to the AX register and its high order
16 bits going to the DX register. If source is a doubleword, then it is multiplied by the doubleword in EAX; the product is 64 bits long, with its low order 32 bits in the EAX register and its
high order 32 bits in the EDX register. For byte multiplication, the original value in AX is
replaced. For word multiplication, the original values in AX and DX are both wiped out. Similarly, for doubleword multiplication the values in EAX and EDX are replaced by the product.
In each case the source operand is unchanged unless it is half of the destination location.
At first glance, it may seem strange that the product is twice the length of its
two factors. However, this also occurs in ordinary decimal multiplication; if, for example,
two four-digit numbers are multiplied, the product will be seven or eight digits long.
Computers that have multiplication operations often put the product in double-length
locations so that there is no danger that the destination location will be too small.
Even when provision is made for double-length products, it is useful to be able
to tell whether the product is the same size as the source; that is, if the high-order half is
zero. With mul instructions, the carry flag CF and overflow flag OF are set to 1 if the high
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
