4.4 Division Instructions 119
source (divisor) size other operand (dividend) quotient remainder
byte AX AL AH
word DX:AX AX DX
doubleword EDX:EAX EAX EDX
Figure 4.15 Operands and results for 80x86 division instructions
The source operand identifies the divisor. The divisor can be in a register or memory, but not
immediate. Both div and idiv use an implicit dividend (the operand you are dividing into).
If source is byte length, then the double-length dividend is word size and is assumed to be in
the AX register. If source is word length, then the dividend is a doubleword and is assumed
to have its low order 16 bits in the AX register and its high order 16 bits in the DX register. If
source is doubleword length, then the dividend is a quadword (64 bits) and is assumed to
have its low order 32 bits in the EAX register and its high order 32 bits in the EDX register.
The table in Fig. 4.15 summarizes the locations of the dividend, divisor, quotient, and remainder for 80x86 division instructions.
The source operand (the divisor) is not changed by a division instruction. After a
word in AX is divided by a byte length divisor, the quotient will be in the AL register half
and the remainder will be in the AH register half. After a doubleword in DX and AX is
divided by a word length divisor, the quotient will be in the AX register and the remainder will be in the DX register. After a quadword in EDX and EAX is divided by a doubleword length divisor, the quotient will be in the EAX register and the remainder will be in
the EDX register.
For all division operations, the dividend, divisor, quotient, and remainder must
satisfy the equation
dividend = quotient*divisor + remainder
For unsigned div operations, the dividend, divisor, quotient, and remainder are all
treated as non-negative numbers. For signed idiv operations, the sign of the quotient is
determined by the signs of the dividend and divisor using the ordinary rules of signs; the
sign of the remainder is always the same as the sign of the dividend.
The division instructions do not set flags to any significant values. They may
destroy previously set values of AF, CF, OF, PF, SF, and ZF flags.
Some examples show how the division instructions work.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
