134 Basic Instructions
This book deals primarily with the machine-language level of abstraction.
One of the book’s primary objectives is to relate this level to the high-level language level
of abstraction. To a hardware designer, it is even more important to relate the machinelanguage level to lower levels of abstraction.
What lower levels are there? Obviously the hardware of the computer somehow
has to execute an instruction like add or imul. The hardware level of a machine is often
viewed as a collection of logic circuits, although you can take an even lower view of
these as constructed with transistors, etc. For relatively simple architectures, electronic
circuits can be designed to implement each possible instruction directly.
For more complex instruction sets, there is usually another level of abstraction
between the machine language that the user sees and the digital circuitry of the machine.
This microcode level consists of a collection of routines that actually implement the
instructions. The microinstructions are normally stored in permanent memory in the CPU
itself. A CPU that uses microcode has a collection of internal scratchpad registers that are
not directly accessible to the user and simple circuitry such as an adder. A machine language instruction is implemented by a series of microinstructions that do have access to
these scratchpad registers. Microcode resembles machine language. However, there are
many differences. Microinstructions typically have bits that directly control circuits. Often
there is no program counter—each instruction contains the address of the next instruction.
In general, microprogramming is more complex than assembly language programming.
Chapter Summary
The Intel 80x86 mov instruction is used to copy data from one location to
another. All but a few combinations of source and destination locations
are allowed. The xchg instruction swaps the data stored at two locations.
The 80x86 architecture has a full set of instructions for arithmetic
with byte-length, word-length, and doubleword-length integers. The add
and sub instructions perform addition and subtraction; inc and dec add
and subtract 1, respectively. The neg instruction negates its operand.
There are two multiplication and two division mnemonics. The
imul and idiv instructions assume that their operands are signed 2’s complement numbers; mul and div assume that their operands are unsigned.
Many multiplication instructions start with single-length operands and
produce double-length products; other formats form a product the same
length as the factors. Division instructions always start with a doubleTEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
