190 Branching and Looping
A pipelined CPU is not as simple as illustrated above. One problem may occur
if, say, stage 2 needs to compute an address based on the contents of a register modified
by stage 3 of the previous instruction; the register might not yet contain the correct
address. A CPU can be designed to avoid such problems, usually at the cost of a “hole” in
the pipeline.
A more serious problem occurs when the CPU executes a conditional jump
instruction. With a conditional jump the CPU cannot tell which of two possible
sequences of instructions will be executed next until the condition itself is evaluated by
the last stage. Earlier stages may be working on one instruction stream, only to be forced
to discard all this work and refill the pipeline from the beginning with instructions from
the alternative stream.
Chapter Summary
This chapter introduced 80x86 instructions that can be used to implement
many high-level design or language features including if statements, various loops structures, and arrays.
The jmp instruction unconditionally transfers control to a destination statement. It has several versions, including one that jumps to a short
destination 128 bytes before or 127 bytes after the jmp and one that jumps
to a near destination a 32-bit displacement away. The jmp instruction is
used in implementing various loop structures, typically transferring control
back to the beginning of the loop, and in the if-then-else structure at the
end of the “then code” to transfer control to endif so that the else code is
not also executed. A jmp statement corresponds directly to the goto statement that is available in most high-level languages.
Conditional jump instructions examine the settings of one or more
flags in the flag register and jump to a destination statement or fall
through to the next instruction depending on the flag values. Conditional
jump instructions have short and near displacement versions. There is a
large collection of conditional jump instructions. They are used in if statements and loops, often in combination with compare instructions, to check
Boolean conditions.
The cmp (compare) instructions have the sole purpose of setting
or resetting flags in the EFLAGS register. Each compares two operands
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
