202 Procedures
Many high-level languages distinguish between a procedure that performs an
action and a function that returns a value. A function is similar to a procedure except
that it is called by using its name and argument list in an expression. It returns a value
associated with its name; this value is then used in the expression. All subprograms in
the C/C++ language are technically functions in this sense, but the language allows for
functions that return no value.
In assembly language and in some high-level languages the term procedure is
used to describe both types of subprograms, those that return values and those that do
not. The term procedure will be used in both senses in this book.
Procedures are valuable in assembly language for the same reasons as in highlevel languages. They help divide programs into manageable tasks and they isolate code
that can be used multiple times within a single program or that can be saved and reused
in several programs.
This section describes how to write 80x86 procedures, as well as how to assemble and link them using Microsoft software. Information is included on how to define a
procedure, and how to transfer execution control to a procedure and back to the calling
program. We show how the stack is used to save register contents, so that a procedure
returns to the caller with almost all registers unchanged. Other important concepts to be
considered with procedures are how to pass arguments to a procedure and how to
implement local variables in a procedure body; these topics are covered in later sections.
The code for a procedure always follows a .CODE directive. The body of each procedure is bracketed by two directives, PROC and ENDP. Each of these directives has a label
that gives the name of the procedure. With the Microsoft Macro Assembler, the PROC
directive allows several attributes to be specified; we are only going to use one, NEAR32.
This attribute says that the procedure will be located in the same code segment as the calling code and that 32-bit addresses are being used. These choices are normal for flat 32-bit
memory model programming. Figure 6.5 shows relevant parts of a program that incorporates a procedure named Initialize. The job of the procedure is to initialize several variables; the calling program is sketched, but the code for the procedure itself is complete.
In Fig. 6.5 the procedure Initialize is bracketed by PROC and ENDP. The distance
attribute NEAR32 declares this to be a near procedure. Although this example shows the
procedure body prior to the main code, it could also have been placed afterwards. Recall
that execution of a program does not necessarily begin at the first statement of the code
segment; the statement identified by the label _start marks the first instruction to be
executed.
Most of the statements of procedure Initialize are ordinary mov instructions.
These could have been used in the main program at the two places that the call
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
