204 Procedures
statements are coded; however, using the procedure makes the main code both shorter
and clearer. The procedure affects doublewords defined in the program’s data segment
and the EBX register; it has no local variables.
When the main program executes, the instruction
call  Initialize
transfers control from the main code to the procedure. The main program calls the procedure
twice; in general, a procedure may be called any number of times. The return instruction
ret
transfers control from the procedure back to the caller; there is almost always at least one
ret instruction in a procedure and there can be more than one. If there is only one ret,
it is ordinarily the last instruction in the procedure since subsequent instructions would
be unreachable without “spaghetti code.” Although a call instruction must identify its
destination, the ret does not—control will transfer to the instruction following the most
recent call. The 80x86 uses the stack to store the return address.
When the example program in Fig. 6.5 is assembled, linked, and executed, there
is no visible output. However, it is informative to trace execution with a tool like
WinDbg. Figure 6.6 show WinDbg’s initial display. Note that ESP contains 0063FE3C.
The memory window has been opened to start at address 0063FE30, 12 bytes down into
the stack. The EIP register contains 0040103E, the address of the first instruction to be
executed (the first call). Figure 6.7 shows the new state after this statement is executed.
The EIP register now contains 00401010, the address of the first statement in procedure
Initialize. The ESP register contains 0063FE38, so four bytes have been pushed onto the
stack. Looking in memory at this address, you see 43 10 40 00—that is, 00401043, an
address five bytes larger than the address of the first call. If you examine the listing file
for the program, you see that the each call instruction takes five bytes of object code, so
that 00401043 is the address of the instruction following the first call.
In general, a call instruction pushes the address of the next instruction (the one
immediately following the call) onto the stack and then transfers control to the procedure
code. A near call instruction works by pushing the EIP to the stack and then changing
EIP to contain the address of the first instruction of the procedure.
Return from a procedure is accomplished by reversing the above steps. A ret
instruction pops EIP, so that the next instruction to be executed is the one at the address
that was pushed on the stack.
Recall that 80x86 programming can be done using either a flat memory model or
a segmented memory model. With a segmented memory model a procedure may be in a
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
