6.2 Procedure Body, Call and Return 207
tion. The transfer of control when a procedure is called is similar to the transfer of a relative jump, except that the old contents of EIP are pushed, of course.
Near indirect calls encode a register 32 or a reference to a doubleword in memory. When the call is executed, the contents of that register or doubleword are used as
the address of the procedure. This makes it possible for a call instruction to go to different procedures different times.
All far calls must provide both new CS contents and new EIP contents. With far
direct calls, both of these are coded in the instruction, adding six bytes to the opcode.
With far indirect calls, these are located at a six-byte block in memory, and the address
of that block is coded in the instruction.
The return instruction ret is used to transfer control from a procedure body
back to the calling point. Its basic operation is simple; it pops the address previously
stored on the stack and loads it into the instruction pointer EIP. Since the stack contains
the address of the instruction following the call, execution will continue at that point. A
near return just has to restore EIP. A far return instruction reverses the steps of a far call,
restoring both EIP and CS; both of these values are popped from the stack.
There are two formats for the ret instruction. The more common form has no
operand and is simply coded
ret
An alternative version has a single operand and is coded
ret   count
The operand count is added to the contents of ESP after completion of the other steps of
the return process (restoring EIP and, for a far procedure, CS). This can be useful if other
values (parameters in particular) have been saved on the stack just for the procedure call,
and can be logically discarded when the procedure is exited. (Parameters are discussed
further in the next section.) Figure 6.9 lists the various formats of ret instructions.
If a procedure’s PROC directive has the operand NEAR32, then the assembler
generates near calls to the procedure and near returns to exit from it. The Microsoft
Macro Assembler also has retn (return near) and retf (return far) mnemonics to force
near or far returns; we will not need these mnemonics.
To construct building blocks for large programs, it is often desirable to assemble
a procedure or group of procedures separately from the code that calls them; that is, with
procedures and calling programs in separate files. There are a few additional steps
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
