212 Procedures
parameters associate a parameter identifier with an argument that is a single variable
and can be used to pass a value either to the procedure from the caller or from the procedure back to the caller. A common technique for passing parameters is discussed in this
section. This technique can be used to pass word-size or doubleword-size values for in
parameters, or addresses of data in the calling program for in-out parameters.
Although simple procedures can be written using only registers to pass parameters, most procedures use the stack to pass parameters. The stack is also frequently
used to store local variables. As you will see, the techniques for using the stack for
parameters and for local variables are closely related.
We start with a simple example to show how the stack is used to pass parameters. Suppose that the job of a NEAR32 procedure Add2 is to add two doubleword-size
integers, returning the sum in EAX. If the calling program passes these parameters by
pushing them on the stack, then its code might look like
push   Value1      ; first argument value
push   ecx         ; second argument value
call   Add2        ; call procedure to find sum
add    esp,8       ; remove parameters from stack
Before we look at how the parameter values are accessed from the stack, notice how
they are removed from the stack following the call. There is no need to pop them off the
stack to some destination; we simply add eight to the stack pointer to move ESP above
the parameters. It is important to remove parameters from the stack since otherwise
repeated procedure calls might exhaust the stack space. Even more serious, if procedure
calls are nested and the inside call leaves parameters on the stack, then the outside
return will not find the correct return address on the stack. An alternative to adding n to
the stack pointer in the calling program is to use ret n in the procedure, the version of
the return instruction that adds n to ESP after popping the return address. Both forms
will be illustrated in this book.
Figure 6.12 shows how the procedure Add2 can retrieve the two parameter
values from the stack. The procedure code uses the based addressing mode. In this
mode, a memory address is calculated as the sum of the contents of a base register and
a displacement built into the instruction. The Microsoft assembler accepts several alternative notations for a based address; this book will use [register+number], for
example, [ebp+6]. Any general register (e.g., EAX, EBX, ECX, EDX, ESI, EDI, EBP, or
ESP) can be used as the base register; EBP is the normal choice for accessing values in
the stack.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
