6.3 Parameters and Local Variables 219
write an assembly language procedure that is called by a high-level language program
with code like this. Check reference materials for the compiler before beginning since
there are many variations of these techniques.
How can a high-level language implement variable parameters? How can large
parameters such as an array, a character string, or a record be efficiently passed to a procedure? Either of these can be implemented by passing the address of an argument
rather than the value of the argument to the procedure. The procedure can then either
use the value at the address or store a new value at the address. Figure 6.17 shows a procedure that might implement the Pascal procedure with header
PROCEDURE Minimum(A : IntegerArray;
Count : INTEGER;
VAR Min : INTEGER);
(* Set Min to smallest value in A[1], A[2], ..., A[Count] *)
In this implementation the addresses of arguments corresponding to A and Min are
passed to procedure Minimum. The procedure uses register indirect addressing, first to
examine each array element, and at the end to store the smallest value.
The instructions pushad and popad save and restore all general registers.
These instructions are convenient, but they cannot be used if the procedure generates a
value to be returned in a register. Note that since the Count parameter is word-size, the
address of the first parameter is 14 bytes above the fixed base point—four bytes for EBP,
four bytes for the return address, four bytes for the address of Min, and two bytes for the
value of Count. (Draw the stack picture.)
Calling code for procedure Minimum could look like the following.
lea    eax, Array      ; Parameter 1:  address of Array
push   eax
push   Count           ; Parameter 2:  value of Count
lea    eax, Min        ; Parameter 3:  address of Min
push   eax
call   Minimum         ; call procedure
add    esp, 10         ; discard parameters
After this code is executed, the smallest value from Array will be in the word referenced by Min.
It is perfectly legal for a procedure to store local variables in the data segment.
The .DATA directive can be included in a file used for separate assembly of procedures.
In fact, a program may have multiple .DATA directives, although this is generally not
necessary. You should normally keep variables as local as possible, stored on the stack or
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
