6.4 Recursion 223
3. Write a procedure Avg to find the average of collection of doublewordsize integers in an array. Procedure Avg will have three parameters:
(1) the address of the array
(2) the number of integers in the array (passed as a doubleword)
(3) the address of a doubleword at which to store the result.
4. Write a procedure Search to search an array of doublewords for a specified doubleword value. Procedure Search will have three parameters:
(1) the value for which to search (a doubleword)
(2) the address of the array
(3) the number N of doublewords in the array (passed as a doubleword)
Return in EAX the position (1,2,...,N) at which the value is found, or
return 0 if the value does not appear in the array.
6.4 Recursion
A recursive procedure or function is one that calls itself, either directly or indirectly. The
best algorithms for manipulating many data structures are recursive. It is frequently very difficult to code certain algorithms in a programming language that does not support recursion.
It is almost as easy to code a recursive procedure in 80x86 assembly language
as it is to code a nonrecursive procedure. If parameters are passed on the stack and local
variables are stored on the stack, then each call of the procedure gets new storage allocated for its parameters and local variables. There is no danger of the arguments passed
to one call of a procedure being confused with those for another call since each call has
its own stack frame. If registers are properly saved and restored, then the same registers
can be used by each call of the procedure.
This section gives one example of a recursive procedure in 80x86 assembly language. It solves the Towers of Hanoi puzzle, pictured in Fig. 6.18 with four disks. The
object of the puzzle is to move all disks from source spindle A to destination spindle B,
one at a time, never placing a larger disk on top of a smaller disk. Disks can be moved to
spindle C, a spare spindle. For instance, if there are only two disks, the small disk can be
moved from spindle A to C, the large one can be moved from A to B, and finally the small
one can be moved from C to B.
In general, the Towers of Hanoi puzzle is solved by looking at two cases. If there
is only one disk, then the single disk is simply moved from the source spindle to the destination. If the number of disks NbrDisks is greater than one, then the top (NbrDisks–1)
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
