6.5 Other Architectures: Procedures Without a Stack 229
section gives a brief description of one system for doing this. It is based on the conventions commonly used in IBM mainframe computers whose architecture is derived from
the System/360 (S/360) systems first introduced in the 1960s.
The S/360 architecture includes sixteen 32-bit general purpose registers (GPRs),
numbered 0 to 15. Addresses are 24 bits long and an address can be stored in any register. The architecture includes addressing modes comparable to direct, register indirect,
and indexed.
A procedure is usually called by loading its address into GPR 15 and then executing a branch and link instruction that jumps to the procedure code after copying the
address of the next instruction into GPR 14. This makes return easy; simply jump to the
address in GPR 14.
Parameter passing is more challenging. Normally GPR 1 is used to pass the
address of a parameter address list. This is a list of 32-bit storage locations (32 bits is
called a word in the S/360 architecture), the first word containing the address of the first
parameter, the second word containing the address of the second parameter, etc. To
retrieve a word-size parameter, one must first get its address from the parameter address
list, then copy the word at that address.
Since the same general purpose registers are normally used for the same tasks
each time a procedure is called, problems may occur if one procedure calls another. For
instance, a second procedure call would put the second return address into GPR 14, wiping out the first return address. To avoid this problem, the main program and each procedure allocates a block of storage for a register save area and puts its address in GPR 13
prior to a procedure call. The procedure then saves general purpose registers 0–12, 14,
and 15 in the register save area of the calling program and GPR 13 in its own register
save area. This system is relatively complicated compared to using a stack, but it works
well except for recursive procedure calls. Since there is only one register save area per
procedure, recursive procedure calls are impossible without modifying the scheme.
Exercises 6.5
1. If you translate the IBM S/360 parameter passing scheme into 80x86
assembly language, you get code that looks like the following in the
calling program.
Double1     DWORD  ?
...
Value1      DWORD  ?
Value2      DWORD  ?
...
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
