230 Procedures
AddrList    DWORD  OFFSET Value1   ; address of parameter 1
DWORD  OFFSET Value2   ; address of parameter 2
DWORD  OFFSET Double1  ; address of parameter 3
...
lea    ebx,AddrList    ; get address of AddrList
call   Proc1
Note that the parameters do not need to be in consecutive storage locations, but their addresses are in consecutive words at AddrList. Give
code to show how the values of the three parameters can be accessed
from within procedure Proc1.
2. Describe what happens if you attempt a recursive procedure call using
the system described in this section.
Chapter Summary
This chapter has discussed techniques for implementing procedures in the
80x86 architecture. The stack serves several important purposes in procedure implementation. When a procedure is called, the address of the next
instruction is stored on the stack before control transfers to the first instruction of the procedure. A return instruction retrieves this address from the
stack in order to transfer control back to the correct point in the calling
program. Argument values or their addresses can be pushed onto the stack
to pass them to a procedure; when this is done, the base pointer EBP and
based addressing provide a convenient mechanism for accessing the values
in the procedure. The stack can be used to provide space for a procedure’s
local variables. The stack is also used to “preserve the environment”—for
example, register contents can be pushed onto the stack when a procedure
begins and popped off before returning to the calling program so that the
calling program does not need to worry about what registers might be
altered by the procedure.
Recursive algorithms arise naturally in many computing applications. Recursive procedures are no more difficult than nonrecursive procedures to implement in the 80x86 architecture.
Some computer architectures do not have a hardware stack. Nonrecursive procedures can be implemented using registers to store addresses,
and memory to save registers when one procedure calls another.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
