232 String Operations
7.1 Using String Instructions
Five 80x86 instructions are designed for string manipulation: movs (move string), cmps
(compare string), scas (scan string), stos (store string), and lods (load string). The
movs instruction is used to copy a string from one memory location to another. The cmps
instruction is designed to compare the contents of two strings. The scas instruction can
be used to search a string for one particular value. The stos instruction can store a new
value in some position of a string. Finally, the lods instruction copies a value out of
some position of a string.
A string in the 80x86 architecture refers to a contiguous collection of bytes,
words, or doublewords in memory. Strings are commonly defined in a program’s data
segment using such directives as
response     BYTE   20 DUP (?)
label1       BYTE   'The results are ', 0
wordString   WORD   50 DUP (?)
arrayD       DWORD  60 DUP (0)
Note that strings and arrays are actually the same except for the way we look at them.
Each string instruction applies to a source string, a destination string, or
both. The bytes, words, or doublewords of these strings are processed one at a time by
the string instruction. Register indirect addressing is used to locate the individual
byte, word, or doubleword elements. The 80x86 instructions access elements of the
source string using the address in the source index register ESI. Elements in the destination string are accessed using the address in the destination index register EDI. If
you program using a segmented memory model, then you also must know that the
source element is in the data segment (at address DS:ESI) while the destination element is in the extra segment (at address ES:EDI). With flat memory model programming, both segment registers contain the same segment number and no distinction
between segments.
Since the source and destination addresses of string elements are always given
by ESI and EDI, respectively, no operands are needed to identify these locations. Without
any operand, however, the assembler cannot tell the size of the string element to be
used. For example, just movs by itself could say to move a byte, a word, or a doubleword.
The Microsoft Macro Assembler offers two ways around this dilemma. The first method
is to use destination and source operands; these are ignored except that MASM notes
their type (both operands must be the same type) and uses that element size. The second method is to use special versions of the mnemonics that define the element size—
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
