7.1 Using String Instructions 233
Clock Cycles Number
Instruction 386 486 Pentium of Bytes Opcode
cld 2 2 2 1 FC
std 2 2 2 1 FD
Figure 7.1 cld and std instructions
instructions that operate on bytes use a b suffix, word string instructions use a w suffix,
and doubleword string instructions use a d suffix. For example, movsb is used to move
byte strings, movsw is used to move word strings, and movsd is used to move doubleword strings. Any of these instructions assemble as a movs and none uses an operand
since the assembler knows the element size from the mnemonic. This book will use
mnemonics with b, w, and d suffixes rather than operands for string instructions.
Although a string instruction operates on only one string element at a time, it
always gets ready to operate on the next element. It does this by changing the source
index register ESI and/or the destination index register EDI to contain the address of the
next element of the string(s). When byte-size elements are being used, the index registers are changed by one; for words, ESI and EDI are changed by two; and for doublewords, the registers are changed by four. The 80x86 can move either forward through a
string, from lower to higher addresses, or backward, from higher to lower addresses. The
movement direction is determined by the value of the direction flag DF, bit 10 of the
EFLAGS register. If DF is set to 1, then the addresses in ESI and EDI are decremented by
string instructions, causing right to left string operations. If DF is clear (0), then the values in ESI and EDI are incremented by string instructions, so that strings are processed
left to right.
The 80x86 has two instructions whose sole purpose is to reset or set the direction flag DF. The cld instruction clears DF to 0 so that ESI and EDI are incremented by
string instructions and strings are processed left to right. The std instruction sets DF to
1 so that strings are processed backward. Neither instruction affects any flag other than
DF. Technical data about these instructions appear in Fig. 7.1.
Finally it is time to present all the details about a string instruction. The move
string instruction movs transfers one string element (byte, word, or doubleword) from a
source string to a destination string. The source element at address DS:ESI is copied to
address ES:EDI. After the string element is copied, both index registers are changed by
the element size (1, 2, or 4), incremented if the direction flag DF is 0 or decremented if
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
