236 String Operations
passed on the stack, which give the destination and source addresses of byte or character
strings. The source string is assumed to be null-terminated. Procedure strcopy produces an
exact copy of the source string at the destination location, terminating the destination
string by a null byte.
The procedure only uses registers ESI and EDI. It saves each of these and the
flag register on the stack so that the procedure will return with them unchanged. The
index registers ESI and EDI must be initialized to the addresses of the first string bytes
to be processed. The values for ESI and EDI are the arguments that were pushed on the
stack. The direction flag is cleared for left-to-right copying.
After initialization, the procedure executes the following pseudocode design:
while next source byte is not null
copy source byte to destination;
increment source index;
increment destination index;
end while;
put null byte at end of destination string;
To check whether the next source byte is null, the statement
cmp    BYTE PTR [esi],0  ; null source byte?
is used. Recall that the notation [esi] indicates register indirect addressing, so that the
element at the address in ESI is used, that is, the current byte of the source string. The
operator BYTE PTR is necessary since MASM cannot tell from the operands [esi] and 0
whether byte, word, or doubleword comparison is needed. Copying the source byte and
incrementing both index registers is accomplished by the movsb instruction. Finally,
mov    BYTE PTR [edi],0  ; terminate destination string
serves to move a null byte to the end of the destination string since EDI was incremented after the last byte of the source was copied to the destination. Again, the operator BYTE PTR tells MASM that the destination is a byte rather than a word or
doubleword.
The program to test strcopy simply inputs a string from the keyboard, calls strcopy to copy it somewhere else, and finally displays the string copy. The most interesting part of the code is the collection of instructions needed to call the procedure. The
arguments are not removed from the stack since the procedure does that job.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
