7.2 Repeat Prefixes and More String Instructions 239
4. Repeat Problem 1, replacing the procedure setup1 by
setup4  PROC NEAR32
lea   esi, string+9  ; end of string
lea   edi, string+7  ; address of 'H'
std                  ; backward movement
ret
setup4  ENDP
Programming Exercises 7.1
1. Write a program that copies strings read in one at a time from the keyboard into a large storage area for later processing. Specifically, use the
input macro to input a string, then copy the string to the first of a 1024
byte block of storage that has been reserved in the data segment. (Recall
that the input macro produces a null-terminated string.) Follow the
string by a carriage return and a linefeed character in this storage area.
Repeat the process with additional strings, copying each subsequent
string to the storage area so that it immediately follows the linefeed after
the last string. Exit the loop when the first character of the source string
is $—do not copy this last string to the storage area. Do, however, place a
null byte after the linefeed of the last string in the storage area. Finally,
use the output macro to display all the characters in the data area. The
result should be the strings that were entered, one per line.
7.2 Repeat Prefixes and More String Instructions
Each 80x86 string instruction operates on one string element at a time. However, the
80x86 architecture includes three repeat prefixes that change the string instructions into
versions that repeat automatically either for a fixed number of iterations or until some
condition is satisfied. The three repeat prefixes actually correspond to two different single-byte codes; these are not themselves instructions, but supplement machine codes
for the primitive string instructions, making new instructions.
Figure 7.4 shows two program fragments, each of which copies a fixed number of characters from sourceStr to destStr. The number of characters is loaded into the
ECX register from count. The code in part (a) uses a loop. Since the count of characters
might be zero, the loop is guarded by a jecxz instruction. The body of the loop uses
movsb to copy one character at a time. The loop instruction takes care of counting
loop iterations. The program fragment in part (b) is functionally equivalent to the one
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
