7.2 Repeat Prefixes and More String Instructions 241
equal” and repz stands for “repeat while zero.” Similarly repne and repnz mean
“repeat while not equal” and “repeat while not zero,” respectively. Each of these repeat
prefixes is appropriate for use with the two string instructions cmps and scas, which
affect the zero flag ZF.
The names of these mnemonics partially describe their actions. Each instruction works the same as rep, iterating a primitive instruction while ECX is not zero. However, each also examines ZF after the string instruction is executed. The repe and repz
continue iterating while ZF=1, as it would be following a comparison where two
operands were equal. The repne and repnz continue iterating while ZF=0, as it would
be following a comparison where two operands were different. Repeat prefixes themselves do not affect any flag. The three repeat prefixes are summarized in Fig. 7.5. Note
that rep and repz (repe) generate exactly the same code.
The repz and repnz prefixes do not quite produce true while loops with the
conditions shown in Fig. 7.5. The value in ECX is checked prior to the first iteration of
the primitive instruction, as it should be with a while loop. However, ZF is not checked
until after the primitive instruction is executed. In practice, this is very convenient since
the instruction is skipped for a zero count, but the programmer does not have to do anything special to initialize ZF prior to repeated instructions.
Figure 7.6 shows how the repeat prefix rep combines with the movs instructions. In the clock cycles columns, there is a “set up” time plus a time for each iteration.
Mnemonic Loop while Number of bytes Opcode
rep ECX>0 1 F3
repz/repe ECX>0 and ZF=1 1 F3
repnz/repne ECX>0 and ZF=0 1 F2
Figure 7.5 Repeat prefixes
Element Clock Cycles Number
Mnemonic size 386 486 Pentium of bytes Opcode
rep movsb byte 7+4n 12+3n 13+4n 2 F3 A4
rep movsw word F3 A5
rep movsd doubleword F3 A5
Figure 7.6 rep movs instructions
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
