254 String Operations
7. Write a complete program that prompts for and inputs a sentence and
two words. Construct a new sentence that is identical to the old one
except that each occurrence of the first word is replaced by the second
word. After you generate the new sentence in memory, display it.
7.3 Character Translation
Sometimes character data are available in one format but need to be in another format
for processing. One instance of this occurs when characters are transmitted between
two computer systems, one normally using ASCII character codes and the other normally
using EBCDIC character codes. Another time character codes need to be altered is to
transmit them to a device that cannot process all possible codes; it is sometimes easier
to replace the unsuitable codes by acceptable codes than to delete them entirely.
The 80x86 instruction set includes the xlat instruction to translate one character to another character. In combination with other string-processing instructions, it can
easily translate all the characters in a string.
The xlat instruction requires only one byte of object code, the opcode D7. It
takes five clock cycles to execute on an 80386, and four clock cycles on an 80486 or a
Pentium. Prior to execution, the character to be translated is in the AL register. The
instruction works by using a translation table in the data segment to look up the translation of the byte in AL. This translation table normally contains 256 bytes of data, one for
each possible 8-bit value in AL. The byte at offset zero in the table—the first byte—is the
character to which 00 is translated. The byte at offset one is the character to which 01 is
translated. In general xlat uses the character being translated as an offset into the
table, and the byte at that offset then replaces the character in AL.
The xlat instruction has no operand. The EBX register must contain the
address of the translation table. 
Figure 7.13 illustrates a short program which translates each character of string in
place; that is, it replaces each character by its translation using the original location in
memory. The heart of the program is the translation table and the sequence of instructions
mov    ecx, strLength ; string length
lea    ebx, table     ; address of translation table
lea    esi, string    ; address of string
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
