262 String Operations
character. For instance, dividing the number 2895 (0B4F16) by 10 gives a remainder of 5
and a quotient of 289 (012116), the last digit of the number and a new number with
which to repeat the process. This scheme works nicely for positive numbers, but a negative number must be changed to its absolute value before starting the division loop. To
complicate things further, the bit pattern 800016 represents the negative number
32,76810, but +32,768 cannot be represented in 2’s complement form in a 16-bit word.
After standard entry code, the value parameter is copied to AX and the destination address to EDI. The procedure then checks for the special case 800016. If this is the
value, then the ASCII codes for 32768 are moved one at a time to the destination, using
the fact that the destination address is in EDI. The location for the minus sign is in the
EDI register, so register indirect addressing can be used to put this character in the correct memory byte. The location for the character 3 is one byte beyond the address contained in EDI; this address is referenced by [edi+1]. The remaining four characters are
similarly put in place, and the procedure is exited.
The next step of the procedure is to put five leading blanks in the six-byte-long
destination field. The procedure does this with a rep stosb, which uses EDI to point to
successive bytes in destination field. Note that EDI is left pointing at the last byte of the
destination field.
The procedure next stores the correct “sign” in the CL register. A blank is used
for a number greater than or equal to zero, and minus character () is used for a negative
number. A negative number is also negated, giving its absolute value for subsequent
processing.
Finally the main idea is executed. The divisor 10 is placed in the BX register.
The non-negative number is extended to a doubleword by moving zeros to DX. Division
by 10 in BX gives a remainder from 0 to 9 in DX, the last decimal digit of the number.
This is converted to the corresponding ASCII code by adding 3016; recall that the ASCII
codes for digits 0 through 9 are 3016 through 3916. A mov using register indirect addressing puts the character in place in the destination string, and EDI is decremented to point
at the next position to the left.
This process is repeated until the quotient is zero. Finally the “sign” stored in
CL (blank or ) is copied to the immediate left of the last code for a digit. Other positions
to the left, if any, were previously filled with blanks.
Exercises 7.4
1. Why does itoaproc use a destination string six bytes long?
2. Suppose that negative numbers are not changed before the division
loop of itoaproc begins and that an idiv instruction is used rather than
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
