7.4 Converting a 2’s Complement Integer to an ASCII String 263
a div instruction in this loop. Recall that when a negative number is
divided by a positive number, both quotient and remainder will be negative. For instance,  1273 = 10*( 127) + ( 3). How could the rest of the
division loop be modified to produce the correct ASCII codes for both
positive and negative numbers?
Programming Exercises 7.4
1. Rewrite itoaproc, adding a length parameter. Specifically, the new
itoaNew will be a NEAR32 procedure with three parameters, passed on
the stack:
(1) the 2’s complement number to convert to ASCII characters (a word)
(2) the address of the ASCII string (a doubleword)
(3) the desired length of the ASCII string (a word)
The number will be converted to a string of ASCII characters starting at
the offset in the data segment. Do not use a blank in front of a positive
number. If the length is less than the actual number of characters
needed to display the number, fill the entire field with pound signs (#).
If the length is larger than needed, pad with extra spaces to the left of
the number. The procedure will remove parameters from the stack and
must modify no register.
2. Write a NEAR32 procedure hexString that converts a 32-bit integer to a
string of exactly eight characters representing its value as a hexadecimal
number. (That is, the output characters will be 0–9 and A–F, with no
blanks.) The procedure will have two parameters, passed on the stack:
(1) the number
(2) the address of the destination string
The procedure will remove parameters from the stack and must modify
no register. (The remainder upon division by 16 produces a decimal
value corresponding to the rightmost hex digit.)
3. Write a NEAR32 procedure binaryString that converts a 32-bit integer to
a string of exactly 32 characters representing its value as a binary number. The procedure will have two parameters, passed on the stack:
(1) the number
(2) the address of the destination string
The procedure will remove parameters from the stack and must modify
no register. (The remainder upon division by 2 gives the rightmost bit.)
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
