264 String Operations
7.5 Other Architectures: CISC versus RISC Designs
Early digital computers had very simple instruction sets. When designers began to use
microcode to implement instructions in the 1960s, it became possible to have much
more complex instructions. At the same time high-level programming languages were
becoming popular, but language compilers were fairly primitive. This made it desirable
to have machine language statements that almost directly implemented high-level language statements, increasing the pressure to produce computer architectures with
many complex instructions.
The Intel 80x86 machines use complex instruction set computer (CISC)
designs. Instructions such as the string instructions discussed in this chapter would never
have appeared in early computers. CISC machines also have a variety of memory addressing modes, and the 80x86 family is typical in this respect, although you have only seen a
few of its modes so far. Often CISC instructions take several clock cycles to execute.
Reduced instruction set computer (RISC) designs began to appear in the
1980s. These machines have relatively few instructions and few memory addressing
modes. Their instructions are so simple that any one can be executed in a single clock
cycle. As compiler technology improved, it became possible to produce efficient code for
RISC machines. Of course, it often takes many more instructions to implement a given
high-level language statement on a RISC than on a CISC machine, but the overall operation is often faster because of the speed with which individual instructions execute.
In RISC architectures, instructions are all the same format; that is, the same
number of bytes are encoded in a common pattern. This is not the case with CISC architectures. If the 80x86 chips were RISC designs, then this book would have no questions
asking “How many clock cycles?” or “How many bytes?” When we look at the many 80x86
instruction formats in Chapter 9, you may wish for the simplicity of a RISC machine.
One unusual feature of many RISC designs is a relatively large collection of registers (sometimes over 500), of which only a small number (often 32) are visible at one
time. Registers are used to pass parameters to procedures, and the registers that are
used to store arguments in the calling program overlap the registers that are used to
receive the parameter values in the procedure. This provides a simple but very efficient
method of communication between a calling program and a procedure.
There are proponents of both CICS and RISC designs. At this point in time it is
not obvious that one is clearly better than the other. However, the popular Intel 80x86
and Motorola 680x0 families are both CISC designs, so we will be dealing with CISC systems at least in the near future.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
