Chapter Summary 265
Chapter Summary
The word string refers to a collection of consecutive bytes, words, or doublewords in memory. The 80x86 instruction set includes five instructions for
operating on strings: movs (to move or copy a string from a source to a destination location), cmps (to compare two strings), scas (to scan a string for
a particular element), stos (to store a given value in a string), and lods (to
copy a string element into EAX, AX, or AL). Each of these has mnemonic
forms ending with b, w, or d to give the size of the string element.
A string instruction operates on one string element at a time.
When a source string is involved, the source index register ESI contains the
address of the string element. When a destination string is involved, the
destination index register EDI contains the address of the string element.
An index register is incremented or decremented after the string element is
accessed, depending on whether the direction flag DF is reset to zero or set
to one; the cld and std instructions are used to give the direction flag a
desired value.
Repeat prefixes rep, repe (repz), and repne (repnz) are used with
some string instructions to cause them to repeat automatically. The number
of times to execute a primitive instruction is placed in the ECX register. The
conditional repeat forms use the count in ECX but will also terminate
instruction execution if the zero flag gets a certain value; these are appropriate for use with the cmps and scas instructions that set or reset ZF.
The xlat instruction is used to translate the characters of a string.
It requires a 256-byte-long translation table that starts with the destination
byte to which the source byte 00 is translated and ends with the destination byte to which the source byte FF is translated. The xlat instruction can
be used for such applications as changing ASCII codes to EBCDIC codes or
for changing the case of letters within a given character coding system.
The itoa macro expands to code that calls a procedure itoaproc.
Basically this procedure works by repeatedly dividing a non-negative number by 10 and using the remainder to get the rightmost character of the
destination string.
The 80x86 chips are examples of complex instruction set computer (CISC) architecture. They include many complex instructions and
offer many different addressing modes. Reduced instruction set
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
