8.1 Logical Operations 269
The 80x86 has and, or, xor, and not instructions that implement the logical
operations. The formats of these instructions are
and  destination, source 
or    destination, source 
xor   destination, source
not   destination
The first three instructions act on pairs of doublewords, words, or bytes, performing the logical operations on the bits in corresponding positions from the two
operands. For example, when the instruction and bx,cx is executed, bit 0 from the BX
register is “anded” with bit 0 from the CX register, bit 1 from BX is “anded” with bit 1
from CX, and so forth to bit 15 from BX and bit 15 from CX. The results of these 16 and
operations are put in the corresponding positions in the destination.
The not instruction has only a single operand. It changes each 0 bit in that
operand to 1 and each 1 bit to 0. For example, if the AH register contains 10110110 and
the instruction not ah is executed, then the result in AH will be 01001001. This is sometimes called “taking the one’s complement” of the operand.
The not instruction does not affect any flag. However, each of the other three
Boolean instructions affects CF, OF, PF, SF, ZF, and AF. The carry flag CF and overflow
flag OF flags are both reset to 0; the value of the auxiliary carry flag AF may be changed
but is undefined. The parity flag PF, the sign flag SF, and the zero flag ZF are set or reset
according to the value of the result of the operation. For instance, if the result is a pattern
of all 0 bits, then ZF will be set to 1; if any bit of the result is not 0, then ZF will be reset to 0.
The and, or, and xor instructions all accept the same types of operands, use
the same number of clock cycles for execution, and require the same number of bytes of
object code. They are summarized together in Fig. 8.2. Information about the not
instruction is given in Fig. 8.3.
It is interesting to note that Fig. 8.2 is almost identical to Fig. 4.5, which
showed add and sub instructions. Also, Fig. 8.3 is almost identical to Fig. 4.7,
which showed neg instructions. In both cases, the available operand formats are identical, the timings are identical, and even many of the opcodes are the same. (Recall that
when the opcodes are the same, the second byte of the instruction distinguishes
between add, sub, and, or, and xor instructions.)
Here are some examples showing how the logical instructions work. To compute the results by hand, it is necessary to expand each hex value to binary, do the logical operations on corresponding pairs of bits, and convert the result back to hex. These
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
