272 Bit Manipulation
Only one of the leading zeros is needed in 0000000fh, but coding seven zeros helps clarify the purpose of this operand. The trailing hex digit f corresponds to 1111 in binary,
providing the four 1s that will leave the last four bits in EAX unchanged.
A value that is used with a logical instruction to alter bit values is often
called a mask. The Microsoft assembler MASM accepts numeric values in decimal,
hexadecimal, binary, and octal formats. Hex and binary are preferred for constants
used as masks since the bit pattern is obvious for binary values or easy to figure out
for hex values.
As illustrated above, the and instruction is useful when selected bits of a
byte or word need to be cleared. The or instruction is useful when selected bits of a
byte or word need to be set to 1 without changing other bits. Observe that if the value
1 is combined with either a 0 or 1 using the or operation, then the result is 1. However, if the value 0 is used as one operand, then the result of an or operation is the
other operand.
The exclusive or instruction will complement selected bits of a byte or word
without changing other bits. This works since 0 xor 1 is 1 and 1 xor 1 is 0; that is,
combining any operand with 1 using an xor operation results in the opposite of the
operand value.
A second use of logical instructions is to implement high-level language
Boolean operations. One byte in memory could be used to store eight Boolean values. If
such a byte is at flags, then the statement
and   flags, 11011101b    ; flag5 := false;  flag1 := false
assigns value false to bits 1 and 5, leaving the other values unchanged. (Recall that bits
are numbered from right to left, starting with zero for the rightmost bit.)
If the byte in memory at flags is being used to store eight Boolean values, then
an or instruction can assign true values to any selected bits. For instance, the instruction
or   flags, 00001100b    ; flag3 := true;  flag2 := true
assigns true values to bits 2 and 3 without changing the other bits.
If the byte in memory at flags is being used to store eight Boolean values, then
an xor instruction can negate selected values. For instance, the design statement
flag6 := NOT flag6;
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
