292 Bit Manipulation
is represented in split octal by applying the 2–3–3 system to the highorder and low-order bytes separately. Write a NEAR32 procedure splitOctal which converts an 16-bit integer to a string of exactly six
characters representing the value of the number in split octal. The procedure will have two parameters, passed on the stack:
(1) the number
(2) the address of the destination string
The procedure will remove parameters from the stack and must modify
no register.
8.3 Converting an ASCII String to a 2’s Complement
Integer
The atoi and atod macros have been used to scan an area of memory containing an
ASCII representation of an integer, producing the corresponding word-length 2’s complement integer in the EAX register. These macros and the procedures they call are very
similar. This section uses atod as an example.
The atod macro expands into the following sequence of instructions.
lea    eax,source          ; source address to EAX
push   eax                 ; source parameter on stack
call   atodproc            ; call atodproc(source)
These instructions simply call procedure atodproc using a single parameter, the address
of the string of ASCII characters to be scanned. The EAX register is not saved by the
macro code since the result is to be returned in EAX. The actual source identifier is used
in the expanded macro, not the name source.
The actual ASCII to 2’s complement integer conversion is done by the procedure atodproc. The assembled version of this procedure is contained in the file IO.OBJ.
Source code for atodproc is shown in Fig. 8.9. The procedure begins with standard entry
code. The flags are saved so that flag values that are not explicitly set or reset as promised in the comments can be returned unchanged. The popf and pop instructions at
AToDExit restore these values; however, the word on the stack that is popped by popf
will have been altered by the body of the procedure, as discussed below.
The first job of atodproc is to skip leading spaces, if any. This is implemented
with a straightforward while loop. Note that BYTE PTR [esi] uses register indirect
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
