302 The Assembly Process
9.1 Two-Pass and One-Pass Assembly
One of the many reasons for writing assembly language rather than machine language is
that assemblers allow the use of identifiers or symbols to reference data in the data segment and instructions in the code segment. To code in machine language, a programmer must know run-time addresses for data and instructions. An assembler maintains a
symbol table that associates each identifier with various attributes. One attribute is a
location, typically relative to the beginning of a segment, but sometimes an absolute
address to be used at run time. Another attribute is the type of the symbol, where possible types include labels for data or instructions, symbols equated to constants, procedure
names, macro names, and segment names. Some assemblers start assembling a source
program with a symbol table that includes all the mnemonics for the language, all register names, and other symbols with reserved usage.
The other main job of an assembler is to output object code that is close to the
machine language executed when a program is run. A two-pass assembler scans the
source code once to produce a symbol table and a second time to produce the object
code. A one-pass assembler only scans the source code one time, but often must patch
the object code produced during this scan. A simple example shows why: If the segment
jmp   endLoop
add   eax, ecx
endLoop: 
is scanned, the assembler finds a forward reference to endLoop in the jmp instruction.
At this point the assembler cannot tell the address of endLoop, much less whether this
destination is short (within 27 bytes of the address of the add instruction) or near (within
232 bytes). The first option would use an EB opcode and a single-byte displacement. The
second option would use an E9 opcode and a doubleword displacement. Clearly the final
code must wait at least until the assembler reaches the source code line with the endLoop label.
Typical assemblers use two passes, and some actually use three or more passes.
The Microsoft Macro Assembler is a one-pass assembler. This book will not attempt to cover
details of how it fixes up object code. You can see part of MASM’s symbol table by looking at
the end of an assembly listing. The remainder of this section concentrates on a typical symbol table, drawing examples from the program and listing file that appear in Chapter 3.
If a symbol is a label for data, then the symbol table may include the size of the
data. For instance, the program in Fig. 3.1 contains the directive
number2 DWORD   ?
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
