9.1 Two-Pass and One-Pass Assembly 303
and the corresponding line in the listing file (Fig. 3.7) is
number2  . . . . . . . . . . . .    Dword    00000004 _DATA
This shows that the size of number2 has been recorded as a doubleword. Having the size
recorded enables MASM to detect incorrect usage of a symbol—with this definition of
number2, MASM would indicate an error for the instruction
mov   bh, number2
since the BH register is byte size while the symbol table identifies number2 as doubleword size. In addition to the size, if a symbol is associated with multiple objects, a symbol table may contain the number of objects or the total number of bytes associated with
the symbol. The MASM symbol listing does not show this.
If a symbol is equated to a value, then the value is usually stored in the symbol
table. When the assembler encounters the symbol in subsequent code, it substitutes the
value recorded in the symbol table. In the example program, the source code line
cr      EQU     0dh     ; carriage return character
is reflected in the listing file line
cr . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     Number   0000000Dh
If a symbol is a label for data or an instruction, then its location is entered in the
symbol table. An assembler keeps a location counter to compute this value. With a typical assembler, the location counter is set to zero at the beginning of a program or at the
beginning of each major subdivision of the program. The Microsoft Macro Assembler
sets the location counter to zero at the beginning of each segment. As an assembler
scans source code, the location of each datum or instruction is the value of the location
counter before the statement is assembled. The number of bytes required by the statement is added to the location counter to give the location of the next statement. Again
looking at the line
number2 DWORD   ?
the listing file shows
number2  . . . . . . . . . . . .     Dword    00000004 _DATA
with 00000004 in the Value column. This is the value of the location counter at the time
number2 is encountered in the data segment. The value is 00000004 since the only item
preceding number2 was number1, and it took four bytes.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
