9.1 Two-Pass and One-Pass Assembly 305
sets aside 20 words of storage. This storage reservation is typically done one of two ways:
• the assembler may write 40 bytes with some known value (like 00) to
the object file, or
• the assembler may insert a command that ultimately causes the
loader to skip 40 bytes when the program is loaded into memory
In the latter case, storage at run time will contain whatever values are left over
from execution of other programs.
In addition to reserving storage, assemblers can initialize the reserved memory
with specified values. The MASM statement
WORD   10, 20, 30
not only reserves three words of storage, it initializes the first to 000A, the second to
0014 and the third to 001E. Initial values may be expressed in a variety of ways using
MASM and most other assemblers. Numbers may be given in different number systems,
often binary, octal, decimal, and hexadecimal. The assembler converts character values
to corresponding ASCII or EBCDIC character codes. Assemblers usually allow expressions as initial values. The Microsoft Macro Assembler is typical in accepting expressions that are put together with addition, subtraction, negation, multiplication, division,
not, and, or, exclusive or, shift, and relational operators. Such an expression is evaluated
at assembly time, producing the value that is actually used in the object code.
Most assemblers can produce a listing file that shows the original source code
and some sort of representation of the corresponding object code. Another responsibility
of an assembler is to produce error messages when there are errors in the source code.
Rudimentary assemblers just display a line number and an error code for each error.
Slightly less primitive assemblers produce a separate page with line numbers and error
messages. Most assemblers can include an error message in the listing file at the point
where the error occurs. The Microsoft Macro Assembler includes messages in the
optional listing file and also displays them on the console.
In addition to the listing that shows source and object code, an assembler often
can generate a listing of symbols used in the program. Such a listing may include information about each symbol’s attributes—taken from the assembler’s symbol table—as
well as cross references that indicate the line where the symbol is defined and each line
where it is referenced.
Some assemblers begin assembling instructions with the location counter set to
a particular actual memory address and thus generate object code that is ready to be
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
