306 The Assembly Process
loaded at that address. This is the only way to generate object code with some simpler
systems. Generally such code is not linked; it is ready to load and run.
One file can reference objects in another. Recall that the EXTRN directive facilitates this for MASM. A linker combines separate object code files into a single file. If one
file references objects in the other, the linker changes the references from “to be determined” to locations in the combined file.
Most assemblers produce object code that is relocatable; that is, it can be
loaded at any address. One way to do this is to put a map in the object code file that
records each place in the program where an address must be modified. Address modifications are usually carried out by the loader. The loader finally produces true machine
language, ready for execution.
Another way to get relocatable code is to write it with only relative references;
that is, so that each instruction only references an object at some distance from itself, not
at a fixed address. In an 80x86 system, most jump instructions are relative, so if a programmer stores data in registers or on the stack, it is fairly easy to produce such a program.
With MASM, a programmer can actually directly reference the location counter
using the $ symbol. The code fragment from Fig. 9.1 could be rewritten as
cmp  ecx, 100      ; count <= 100 ?
jnle $+10          ; exit if not
add  eax, [ebx]    ; add value to sum
add  ebx, 4        ; address of next value
inc  ecx           ; add 1 to count
jmp  $–11
This works since the value of the location counter $ is the location of the beginning of the
jnle statement as it is assembled. Its two bytes and the eight bytes of the next four statements need to be skipped to exit the loop. Similarly the backward reference must skip the
inc statement and the four other statements back through the beginning of the cmp statement, a total of eleven bytes. Although MASM allows use of $ to reference the location
counter, obviously this can produce confusing code and should normally be avoided.
Exercises 9.1
1. Describe the differences between object code and machine language.
2. Suppose that every symbol reference in an assembly language program
is a backward reference. Would a one-pass assembler ever have to “fix
up” the code it produced? Explain your answer.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
