9.2 80x86 Instruction Coding 307
3. Assemble the following code fragment
Array   DWORD  10 DUP(?)
ArrSize EQU    SIZE Array
To what value is ArrSize equated? What conclusion can you draw about
whether or not MASM records an attribute that tracks the number of
bytes associated with a variable?
4. This section states that storage reservation with a directive like WORD
can work by putting the correct number of some known byte value in
the object file or by inserting a command that ultimately causes the
loader to skip the correct number of bytes. State one advantage and one
disadvantage of each design.
9.2 80x86 Instruction Coding
This section describes the structure of 80x86 machine language. From this information
one could almost assemble an 80x86 assembly language program by hand. However, the
primary purpose here is to acquire a better understanding of the capabilities and limitations of the 80x86 microprocessor family.
An 80x86 instruction consists of several fields, which are summarized in Fig.
9.2. Some instructions have only an opcode, while others require that other fields be
included. Any included fields always appear in this order. Each of these components is
discussed below.
The repeat prefixes for string instructions were discussed in Chapter 7. There
you learned that adding a repeat prefix to one of the basic string instructions effectively changes it into a new instruction that automatically iterates a basic operation. The
repeat prefix is coded in the instruction prefix byte, with the opcode of the basic string
instruction in the opcode byte. Repeat prefix bytes can be coded only with the basic
string instructions.
The LOCK prefix is not illustrated in this book’s code. It can be used with a few
selected instructions and causes the system bus to be locked during execution of the
instruction. Locking the bus guarantees that the 80x86 processor has exclusive use of
shared memory.
All the code in this book uses 32-bit memory addresses. In a 32-bit address
environment it is possible to have an instruction that only contains a 16-bit address.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
