9.3 Macro Definition and Expansion 319
swap a[left] and a[right];
end while;
quickSort(a, leftEnd, left–1);
quickSort(a, right+1, rightEnd);
end if;
Implement this algorithm in a NEAR32 procedure quickSort with three
parameters: (1) the address of an array a of doubleword integers, (2) a
doubleword leftEnd, and (3) a doubleword rightEnd. The procedure will
change no register and it will be responsible for removing parameters
from the stack. Use scaled and indexed addressing appropriately to
address array elements. Write a short test driver program to test your
procedure.
9.3 Macro Definition and Expansion
A macro was defined in Chapter 3 as a statement that is shorthand for a sequence of
other statements. The assembler expands a macro to the statements it represents, and
then assembles these new statements. Many previous chapters have made extensive use
of macros defined in the file IO.H. This section explains how to write macro definitions
and tells how MASM uses these definitions to expand macros into other statements.
A macro definition resembles a procedure definition in a high-level language.
The first line gives the name of the macro being defined and a list of parameters; the
main part of the definition consists of a collection of statements that describe the action
of the macro in terms of the parameters. A macro is called much like a high-level language procedure, too; the name of the macro is followed by a list of arguments.
These similarities are superficial. A procedure call in a high-level language is
generally compiled into a sequence of instructions to push parameters on the stack followed by a call instruction, whereas a macro call actually expands into statements
given in the macro, with the arguments substituted for the parameters used in the macro
definition. Code in a macro is repeated every time a macro is called, but there is just one
copy of the code for a procedure. Macros often execute more rapidly than procedure calls
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
