326 The Assembly Process
3. Using the macro definition for min2 given in Fig. 9.10, show the sequence
of statements to which each of the following macro calls expands.
(a) min2  value1, value2
(Assume the local symbol counter is at 000A)
(b) min2  cx, value
(Assume the local symbol counter is at 0019)
Programming Exercises 9.3
1. Write a definition of a macro add3 that has three doubleword integer
parameters and puts the sum of the three numbers in the EAX register.
2. Write a definition of a macro max2 that has two doubleword integer
parameters and puts the maximum of the two numbers in the EAX register.
3. Write a definition of a macro min3 that has three doubleword integer
parameters and puts the minimum of the three numbers in the EAX
register.
4. Write a definition of a macro toUpper with one parameter, the address
of a byte in memory. The code generated by the macro will examine the
byte, and if it is the ASCII code for a lowercase letter, will replace it by
the ASCII code for the corresponding uppercase letter.
9.4 Conditional Assembly
The Microsoft Macro Assembler can observe various conditions that can be tested at
assembly time and alter how the source code is assembled on the basis of these conditions. For instance, a block of code may be assembled or skipped based on the definition
of a constant. This ability to do conditional assembly is especially useful in macro definitions. For example, two macros using the same mnemonic may be expanded into different sequences of statements based on the number of operands present. This section
describes some of the ways that conditional assembly can be used.
Figure 9.11 shows a definition for a macro addAll that will add one to five doubleword integers, putting the sum in the EAX register. It employs the conditional assembly directive IFNB (“if not blank”). This directive is most often used in macro definitions,
although it is legal in open code, that is, regular code outside a macro. When an addAll
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
