Chapter Summary 337
The bulk of the file IO.H consists of definitions for itoa, atoi, dtoa, atod, output,
and input macros. These definitions have similar structures. Each uses IFB and IFNB
directives to check that a macro call has the correct number of arguments. If not, .ERR
directives are used to generate forced errors and appropriate messages. Actually, the
checks are not quite complete.
Assuming that its arguments are correct, an input/output macro call expands to
a sequence of instructions that call the appropriate external procedure, for instance
itoaproc for the macro itoa. Parameters are passed on the stack, but some code
sequences use a register to temporarily contain a value, with push and pop instructions
to ensure that these registers are not changed following a macro call.
Exercises 9.5
1. Notice that itoa has only one error message that is used if either or both
argument is missing. Rewrite the definition of itoa to provide complete
argument checking. That is, check separately for missing source and
dest arguments, generating specific messages for each missing argument. Allow for the possibility that both are missing.
Chapter Summary
This chapter has discussed the assembly process. A typical two-pass assembler scans an assembly language program twice, using a location counter to
construct a symbol table during the first pass, and completing assembly
during the second pass. The symbol table contains information about each
identifier used in the program, including its type, size, and location. Assembly can be done in a single pass if the object code is “fixed up” when forward references are resolved.
A machine instruction may have one or more prefix bytes. However, the main byte of machine code for each 80x86 instruction is its
opcode. Some instructions are a single byte long, but most consist of
multiple bytes. The next byte often has the format mod reg r/m where
reg indicates a source or destination register, and the other two fields
combine to describe the addressing mode. Other instruction bytes contain additional addressing information, immediate data, or the address
of a memory operand.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
