Section 10.1 describes the 80x86 floating-point architecture. Section
10.2 describes how to convert floating-point values to and from other formats, including ASCII. Section 10.3 shows floating-point emulation routines of
addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, negation, and comparison
operations—these routines are useful for floating-point operations on an
80x86 system without built-in floating-point instructions. The procedures in
this section serve as examples of assembly language implementation of moderately complex, useful algorithms and also illustrate some techniques not
covered earlier in this book. Section 10.4 gives a brief introduction into using
in-line assembly code in C++ code, with C++ for input/output operations, and
assembly language for floating-point operations. In-line assembly code is not
restricted to floating-point instructions, however.
10.1 80x86 Floating-Point Architecture
As stated above, some 80x86 microprocessors do not have built-in floating point capability, depending instead on a floating-point coprocessor chip to execute floating-point
instructions. Even with the ones that do, the floating-point unit (FPU) of the chip is almost
independent of the rest of the chip. It has its own internal registers, completely separate
from the familiar 80x86 registers. It executes instructions to do floating-point arithmetic
operations, including commonplace operations such as addition or multiplication, and
more complicated operations such as evaluation of some transcendental functions. Not
only can it transfer floating-point operands to or from memory, it can also transfer integer
or BCD operands to or from the coprocessor. Nonfloating formats are always converted to
floating point when moved to a floating-point register; a number in internal floating-point
format can be converted to integer or BCD format as it is moved to memory.
The FPU has eight data registers, each 80 bits long. A ten-byte floating-point
format (also specified by IEEE standards) is used for values stored in these registers. The
registers are basically organized as a stack; for example, when the fld (floating load)
instruction is used to transfer a value from memory to the floating point unit, the value is
loaded into the register at the top of the stack, and data stored in the stack top and other
registers are pushed down one register. However, some instructions can access any of
the eight registers, so that the organization is not a “pure” stack.
340 Floating-Point Arithmetic
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
