10.2 Programming with Floating-Point Instructions 373
Since ST > operand results in all C3 = C2 = C0 = 0, all three control bits must be zero. The
program masks with C3 or C2 or C0, a descriptive way of writing 0100010100000000.
This or operation combines operands at assembly time, not at execution time.
Conversion of the exponent to two ASCII characters uses a slightly new technique.
The exponent in AX is non-negative and less than 40 when the following code is executed.
div  byteTen          ; convert exponent to 2 digits
or   ax, 3030h        ; convert both digits to ASCII
mov  BYTE PTR [edi+1], ah  ; store characters in destination
mov  BYTE PTR [edi], al
Dividing by 10 puts the quotient (the high-order base ten digit) in AL and the remainder
(the low-order digit) in AH. These are simultaneously converted to ASCII by the or
instruction, and are then stored in the destination string.
Programming Exercises 10.2
1. Write a complete program that will prompt for and input a decimal
value for the radius of a circle and will calculate and display (appropriately labeled) the circumference and the area of the circle. Use the input
and output macros to input and output character strings, the atofproc
and ftoaoproc procedures to convert between floating point and ASCII,
and FPU instructions for floating-point operations.
2. Write a NEAR32 procedure ftoaproc1 that will convert a floating-point
number to an ASCII string in fixed point format. Specifically, the procedure must have four parameters pushed on the stack:
• a 32-bit floating point value
• the address of the destination string
• a word containing the total number n of characters in the string to
be generated
• a word containing the number of digits d to be generated after the
decimal point
The output string will consist of a leading blank or minus sign, the integer part of the value in n-d–2 positions (with leading blanks as needed),
a decimal point, and the fractional part of the value rounded to d positions. The procedure will preserve all registers and will remove parameters from the stack.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
