11.1 Packed BCD Representations 389
produces
69 14 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 80
Notice that only the sign indicator changes for a negative number; other digits of the
representation are the same as they would be for the corresponding positive number.
Since an entire byte is used for the sign indicator, only nine bytes remain to
store decimal digits. Therefore the packed BCD scheme used by the DT directive stores
a signed number up to decimal 18 digits long. With MASM 6.11, extra digits are truncated without warning.
Although DT directives can be used to initialize packed BCD numbers in an
assembly language program and arithmetic can be done on these numbers with the aid
of the instructions covered in the next section, packed BCD numbers are of little service
unless they can be displayed for human use. Figure 11.1 gives the source code for a procedure ptoaProc that converts a packed BCD number to the corresponding ASCII string.
This procedure does the same job for packed BCD numbers as itoaProc and dtoaProc do
for 2’s complement integers.
The procedure ptoaProc has two parameters: a 10-byte-long packed BCD
source and a 19-byte-long ASCII destination string, each passed by location. The destination is 19 bytes long to allow for a sign and 18 digits. The sign will be a space for a
positive number and a minus sign for a negative number. For the digits, leading zeros
rather than spaces are produced. The procedure implements the following design:
copy source address to ESI;
copy destination address to EDI;
add 18 to EDI to point at last byte of destination string;
for count := 9 down to 1 loop { process byte containing two digits }
copy next source byte to AL;
duplicate source byte in AH;
mask out high-order digit in AL;
convert low-order digit in AL to ASCII code;
store ASCII code for low-order digit in destination string;
decrement EDI to point at next destination byte to left;
shift AH 4 bits to right to get only high-order digit;
convert high-order digit in AH to ASCII code;
store ASCII code for high-order digit in destination string;
decrement EDI to point at next destination byte to left;
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
