11.1 Packed BCD Representations 395
Programming Exercises 11.1
1. Modify the code for the ptoaProc procedure so that it produces leading
spaces instead of zeros, and so that the minus sign, if any, is placed to
the immediate left of the first nonzero digit. If the value of the entire
number is zero, the units-position (rightmost) zero is not replaced by a
space. The total string length will remain 19 characters. The procedure
will remove parameters from the stack.
2. Modify the code for the ptoaProc procedure so that it produces a 22byte-long ASCII string giving a monetary representation of the source
value. Use leading spaces instead of leading zeros (if any) in the first 16
positions. Character 17 is always a decimal point. Characters 18 and 19
are always digits, even if they have value zero. Character 20 is a space.
Characters 21 and 22 are ASCII codes for “CR” if the value is positive
and “DB” if the value is negative. The procedure will remove parameters from the stack.
3. (a) Modify the code for the atopProc procedure so that it will skip
leading spaces in the source string, accept a leading plus or
minus (+ or  ) immediately before the first digit, and terminate
scanning when any nondigit (rather than only a null byte) is
encountered in the string. If a minus sign is encountered, the sign
byte of the BCD representation is set to 80
16
. The procedure will
remove parameters from the stack.
(b) Define a macro atop similar to the atoi macro described in Section
9.5. Use two parameters, dest and source, dest referencing a 10byte packed BCD string in memory and source referencing a 19byte-long ASCII string. Include safeguards to ensure that the
correct number of arguments is used in a call. Code in the macro
will call the modified atopProc from part (a).
4. Write a procedure editProc that has two parameters, (1) the address of
a pattern string and (2) the address of a 10-byte packed BCD value. The
procedure selectively replaces some characters in the pattern string by
spaces or by ASCII codes for digits extracted from the BCD value.
Except for a terminating null byte, the only allowable characters in a
pattern string are a pound sign (#), a comma (,) and a period (.). A
period is always unchanged. Each # is replaced by a digit. There will be
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
