11.3 Unpacked BCD Representations and Instructions 409
“ASCII” in the unpacked BCD mnemonics is not as unreasonable as it first seems. The
procedure is successful for ASCII strings since the action of the aaa instruction depends
only on what add does with low-order digits, and aaa always sets the high-order digit in
AL to zero. However, even if the operands are true ASCII character strings, the sum is
not ASCII; it is unpacked BCD.
Two single byte unpacked BCD operands are multiplied using an ordinary mul
instruction, resulting in a product in the AX register. Of course, this product will be correct as a binary number, not usually as a BCD value. The aam instruction converts the
product in AX to two unpacked BCD digits in AH and AL. In effect, an aam instruction
divides the number in AL by 10, putting the quotient in AH and the remainder in AL.
The following examples assume that the instructions
mul  bh
aam
are executed.
Before After mul After aam
AX: 00 09 AX: 00 51 AX: 08 01
BH: 06
AX: 00 05 AX: 00 1E AX: 03 00
BH: 06
AX: 00 06 AX: 00 2A AX: 04 02
BH: 07
Some flags are affected by an aam instruction. The PF, SF, and ZF flags are
given values corresponding to the final value in AX; the AF, CF, and OF flags are
undefined.
Multiplication of single-digit numbers is not very useful. Figure 11.8 gives a procedure mulUnp1 to multiply an eight-byte unpacked BCD number by a single-digit
unpacked BCD number. The procedure has three parameters: (1) the destination
address, (2) the address of the BCD source, and (3) a word containing the single-digit
unpacked BCD number as its low-order byte.
The algorithm implemented is essentially the same one as used by grade
school children. The single digit is multiplied times the low-order digit of the multidigit number, the units digit is stored, and the tens digit is recorded as a carry to add
to the next product. All eight products can be treated the same by initializing a lastCarry variable to zero prior to beginning a loop. Here is the design that is actually
implemented.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
