416 Decimal Arithmetic
sum may be the same length as the longer operand, or one byte longer.
Assume that sufficient space has been reserved in the destination field
for the sum, even if operand1 is the shorter operand. The procedure will
remove parameters from the stack.
11.4 Other Architectures: VAX Packed Decimal
Instructions
Since the 80x86 architecture provides very limited support for packed decimal operations, a large procedure library is necessary to use packed decimal types. Some other
architectures provide extensive hardware support for packed decimal. This section
briefly examines packed decimal instructions defined in the VAX architecture, although
not necessarily implemented in all VAX machines.
The VAX architecture defines a packed decimal string by its length and starting address. The length gives the number of decimal digits stored in the string, not the
number of bytes. The last four bits (half byte) are always a sign indicator, normally C16 for
positive and D16 for negative. Since decimal digits are packed two per byte, the length
(in bytes) of a packed decimal string is approximately half the number of digits. More
precisely, for n decimal digits it is (n + 1)/2 if n is odd and (n + 2)/2 if n is even.
The VAX architecture includes a complete set of instructions for performing
packed decimal arithmetic: ADDP (add packed), DIVP (divide packed), MULP (multiply
packed), and SUBP (subtract packed). Each of these has at least four operands to specify
the length and address of each of the packed decimal strings involved. When just two
strings are specified, one serves both as a source and the destination. All also have sixoperand formats where the sources are specified separately from the destination. (MULP
and DIVP have only the six-operand formats.) The MOVP (move packed) instruction
copies a packed decimal string from one address to another. The CMPP (compare packed)
instruction compares two packed decimal strings, setting condition codes (flags).
Recall the difficulty of converting packed decimal to or from other formats. The
VAX architecture provides six different instructions for this purpose. There are functions
to convert between packed decimal strings and 32-bit 2’s complement integers, and others to convert between packed decimal and numeric strings (including ASCII). There is
also an EDIT instruction that converts a packed decimal string to a character string, performing many possible editing operations during the conversions. (Programming Exercises 11.1, #4, describes a similar, but much simpler, editing job.)
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
