Chapter Summary 417
The COBOL language directly supports packed decimal types and operations. If
you were writing a COBOL compiler for a VAX, then the packed decimal instructions
would greatly simplify the job. The resulting compiler would yield much more compact
and efficient code than if each packed decimal operation were emulated by a software
procedure.
Chapter Summary
Integers may be stored in a computer in binary coded decimal form instead
of unsigned or 2’s complement binary form. There are two basic BCD systems, packed and unpacked. Packed BCD values store two decimal digits
per byte, and unpacked BCD values store a single decimal digit per byte.
Binary representations are much more compact than BCD representations and the 80x86 processor has more instructions for doing arithmetic with binary numbers. However, BCD representations can easily store
very large integers and are simple to convert to or from ASCII.
BCD systems may use a variable or a fixed number of bytes and
may or may not store a sign indicator. The MASM assembler provides a DT
directive that can produce a ten byte signed, packed BCD number.
Unpacked BCD numbers can be initialized using BYTE directives.
Arithmetic is done with BCD numbers by combining pairs of bytes
from two operands using ordinary binary arithmetic instructions. The
binary results are then adjusted to BCD. Packed decimal representations use
daa (decimal adjust for addition) and das (decimal adjust for subtraction)
instructions. Using these instructions along with binary arithmetic instructions, arithmetic procedures for packed BCD numbers can be developed.
Four instructions are used for unpacked BCD arithmetic: aaa (ASCII
adjust for addition), aas (ASCII adjust for subtraction), aam (ASCII adjust for
multiplication), and aad (ASCII adjust for division). The aad instruction is
different from the others in that it is applied to a BCD result to convert it to
binary before applying a div instruction.
Some other architectures provide a much more complete set of
packed decimal instructions. In particular, the VAX architecture includes
arithmetic, data movement, comparison, and conversion instructions.
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
