is that the inproc procedure promises a null-terminated string, and the string read by
ReadFile is terminated by the CR/LF. The code
mov    ecx, read
mov    BYTE PTR [esi+ecx–2],0
places a null byte at the end of the string, actually replacing the carriage return character
by a null. It works because the starting address of the string is in ESI, so that when the
character count is put in ECX, ESI+ECX–2 points to the address of the next-to-last character in the input buffer.
This is an appropriate time to repeat the warning from Section 6.1: some
Microsoft operating system functions may require that the stack be doubleword-aligned.
When these functions are used in procedures, you must only push doubleword values
onto the stack. This is, for instance, why the code in Fig. 12.4 contains a pushfd
instruction even though a pushf would save all the flag values that are meaningful to
most programs.
Programming Exercises 12.1
1. Using only functions from kernel32—and without using the book’s I/O
package—write a program that will prompt for and input a name from
the console in the form last, first (that is, last name, comma, first name)
and display it with an appropriate label in the format first last (that is,
first name, space, last name).
2. Using only functions from kernel32—and without using the book’s I/O
package—write a program that will prompt for and input a phrase from
the console and will report whether or not it is a palindrome (that is,
exactly the same string when reversed).
12.2 Sequential File I/O Using the Kernel32 Library
File processing applications generally involve opening the file, reading from or writing to
the file, and finally closing the file. At the level of the kernel32 library, opening the file
means to obtain a handle for it. Closing the file that has been read may be important to
free it up for access by another user. Closing a file that has been written may be necessary
to force the operating systems to save the final characters. In this section we investigate
how to do some of these operations for sequential disk files. File operations like these are
428 Input/Output
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
