5. A doubleword containing flags indicating what to do if the file does not
exist. We will use OPEN_EXISTING (3) when opening an existing file; the
CreateFileA function will fail if the file does not exist. We will use CREATE_NEW (1) when creating a new file; the CreateFileA function will fail
if the file already exists. In other applications, CREATE_ALWAYS (2) may
be appropriate; this creates a new file if one does not exist and overwrites an existing file if it does exist.
6. This parameter is used to set various file attributes. We will use a value
of 0 to indicate no special attributes.
7. The final parameter can be used to indicate the handle of a template file
whose attributes will be used for the newly created file. We will always
use 0 to indicate no template.
As we will use CreateFileA, we will specify parameters 1, 2 and 5, and supply zeros for
the other four.
The CloseHandle function is very simple. It has a single parameter, the handle
of the file to be closed.
The main read loop in Fig. 12.5 uses ReadFile to read 64 characters at a time
from the source file. End of file is detected by comparing the number of characters actually read to 64. If it is smaller, then the end of the file has been reached. However, note
that the characters read are displayed first, so that you don’t lose the last partial buffer.
In this example, there is nothing special about the number 64 except that it is a
power of two. Most operating systems maintain their own buffers for disk file access,
and since the size of such a buffer is almost always a power of two, it makes sense to
have the program’s buffer a size that is comparable.
Figure 12.6 shows a program that will create a disk file from console input. It
first prompts for and inputs the name of the file. It creates that file, fails if it already
exists, and copies lines from the console keyboard to the file until the user begins a line
with %%, a character combination chosen to be unlikely to appear at the beginning of a
line in ordinary text.
There is very little new in this example. The call to CreateFileA uses
GENERIC_WRITE and CREATE_NEW for creation of a new file. The main loop reads a
string of up to 128 characters from the keyboard and writes the string to the file. Loop
control is accomplished by checking the first two characters of the string before writing
it to the file.
432 Input/Output
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
