2. The examples in this section do not check to be sure that the file open is
successful. What happens when you run the program in Fig. 12.6, specifying an output file that already exists? How do you modify the code in
Fig. 12.6 to display a warning message and exit if the file is not opened?
Programming Exercises 12.2
1. A file dump program displays each byte of a file as a two-character
hexadecimal code and the corresponding printable character, if any.
Using only the kernel32 library (not IO.ASM), write a file dump program
that will input the name of a file and then dump it to the console display
using the following format:
Show 16 characters per line, first in hex with a space after each
hex pair so that this takes a total of 48 positions, then as ordinary characters, substituting a period for a nonprintable character, with no
spaces between. A typical line will look like
50 72 6F 67 72 61 6D 6D 69 6E 67 20 0D 0A 69 73 Programming ..is
After 20 lines are displayed on the console, prompt the user with
“m[ore] or q[uit]?” and either continue with the next 20 lines or exit the
program based on the response.
2. Write a program to copy a source file to a destination file. Specifically,
the program must prompt for the source file name, attempt to open the
source file and exit with an error message if it cannot do so. If the
source file is opened successfully, then the user will be prompted for
the destination file name. If the destination file exists, which can be
determined by attempting to open it with CREATE_NEW, the user
should be asked if the old file is to be destroyed with
CREATE_ALWAYS, and the program should terminate if the answer is
negative. If the destination file does not exist, no warning is needed
before making the file copy. Use only input/output functions from the
kernel32 library, not macros from IO.H.
3. Write a program that will copy a source file to a destination file, changing all uppercase letters to lowercase letters, leaving other characters
unchanged. The program must prompt for both file names. It is not necessary to warn the user if the destination file exists before wiping it out
with the copy. Use only input/output functions from the kernel32
library, not macros from IO.H.
436 Input/Output
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
