4. Write a program that will process a collection of fixed format records from
the file RECORDS.DAT. Each line of the file will consist of ASCII data with
• a person’s name in columns 1–20
• an integer right-justified in columns 21–25
Each line of the file will be terminated by a carriage return and a linefeed character so that the total line length is 27 characters. Such a file
can be produced by a standard text editor. The program must echo the
lines of data and then report
• the number of records
• the sum of the numbers
• the person with the largest number
Use only input/output functions from the kernel32 library, not macros
from IO.H. The atod and dtoa macros from IO.H may be used.
12.3 Lower-Level Input/Output
Earlier in this book input and output have been done using macros in IO.H. In this chapter, input and output have been done using function calls from the kernel32 library, a
somewhat lower-level approach. You have probably also done higher-level I/O using
high-level programming languages. This section discusses I/O at a level lower than that
offered by the kernel32 library, covering the Intel 80x86 and other architectures. Since
low-level I/O is increasingly restricted to the operating system, this section does not
show actual code.
As discussed in Chapter 2, the Intel 80x86 architecture has memory addresses
from 0000000016 to FFFFFFFF16. It also has a separate I/O address space, with port
addresses ranging from 000016 to FFFF16. Memory addresses have been used by many of
the instructions covered in this book. However, port addresses are used by only a few
instructions, the most common of which are the in and out instructions that move data
from the addressed port to or from the accumulator (e.g., AL, AX, or EAX). In this sense,
they are like limited mov instructions.
In an IBM-compatible PC, common I/O devices normally have standard port
assignments. For example, the parallel printer port known as LPT1 uses three port
addresses: 0378, 0379, and 037A. The first of these ports is used to send characters to a
printer, the second to determine its status, and the third to send control information to
12.3 Lower-Level Input/Output 437
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
