the printer. Serial ports are usually controlled by a serial input/output (SIO) chip, which
will also require several port addresses.
One of the options in the 80x86 architecture is to use memory-mapped I/O.
With memory-mapped I/O, some of the ordinary memory addresses are assigned for
input/output purposes and regular data movement instructions are used to transfer data
to or from external devices. The hardware designer chooses whether to use memorymapped I/O or the separate I/O address space when building the system. Other architectures, for example the Motorola 680x0 designs, use only memory-mapped I/O.
Regardless of how I/O devices are addressed, there is the separate issue of how
to know when the device has a character ready for the program, or conversely, how to
ensure that the device is ready to receive a character from the program. We will look at
the situation of sending a character to an old-fashioned, slow, mechanical printer. Obviously the computer can generate characters to be printed much more rapidly than the
printer can print them. One technique is to use polling—that is, the program repeatedly
checks a status port on the device until it gets a report that the device is able to accept a
character, then it transmits the character. The design looks like
forever
get status from status port;
if clear to send character, then exit loop;
end loop;
transmit character to data port;
The loop in this design is called a busy-waiting loop for obvious reasons. Unless the
computer is otherwise set up for multitasking, it can do no useful work while waiting for
the device to accept the character.
Interrupt-driven I/O relies on hardware interrupts to inform the CPU of a
device’s change in status. An interrupt is a hardware signal generated by the device
and received by the CPU. When the CPU receives such a signal, it normally finishes executing the current instruction, and then transfers control to an interrupt procedure.
This is very similar to a regular procedure call.
An Intel 80x86 system provides for up to 256 different interrupts. The address
for an interrupt procedure comes from a table of addresses in the very bottom of memory.
Memory locations 0 to 102410 contain 256 addresses corresponding to interrupt levels 0
through 255. In general, for interrupt type t, the interrupt procedure’s address is stored at
address 4*t.
438 Input/Output
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
