A computer system may be designed to generate an interrupt when a key on
the keyboard is pressed. The associated interrupt procedure would capture the character and store it in a buffer for later processing before returning, allowing the computer to
go back to whatever it was doing.
The 80x86 architecture includes an int instruction that enables a program to
invoke an interrupt procedure. Not all interrupt types are used by hardware devices, and
some operating systems, notably Microsoft DOS, use int instructions to call operating
system functions.
80x86 interrupts 0 and 4 are always preassigned. Interrupt type 0 is automatically
called by the 80x86 CPU when division by zero is attempted. A simple program containing
the instruction int 0 also calls the divide by zero interrupt handler, showing how a particular 80x86 system is set up to handle division errors without actually doing a division.
The handler for interrupt type 4 also has an assigned purpose, namely to handle
overflow conditions that result from instructions. This interrupt handler is not called
automatically by the 80x86. It can be called using int 4 but is more commonly invoked
by the into (interrupt on overflow) instruction. This is a conditional call: The overflow
interrupt handler is called if the overflow flag OF is set, but otherwise execution continues with the next instruction. Typically an into instruction would follow an instruction
that might cause overflow to occur.
Exercises 12.3
1. What are the advantages of memory-mapped I/O? What are the advantages of using a separate address space for I/O?
2. What address contains the interrupt procedure address for interrupt
15
10
in an 80x86 system?
Chapter Summary
Input and output can be done at many levels, from high-level language
procedures down to in and out instructions. The kernel32 library illustrates
the operating-system level example of I/O. This library has functions for getting a file or device handle, reading from a file or device, writing to a file or
device, and releasing the file or device.
Chapter Summary 439
TEAM LinG - Live, Informative, Non-cost and Genuine!
